A: Have you ever bought anything online from Yahoo or Ruten, like clothes or CDs? Not everyone likes to use their computers and the Internet to buy things. But shopping online is becoming more and more popular.

To be successful, the website must be easy to find and good to look at. It must have good images and good information, technical information, about the things on sale. There needs to be clear information about prices and special offers. Information about delivery of the products is very important, too. Also the site must be fast and easy to navigate. It must be easy to find things on the site and it must be easy to order the goods and pay for them.

If you have all these things, then customers will keep coming back.

B:Have you ever bought anything online from Yahoo or Ruten, like clothes or CDs? Not everyone likes to use the Internet to buy things. But shopping online is becoming more and more popular.

Not everyone likes buying online, because they don't want to see a picture. They want to see the real thing. Some people feel insecure, handing over their money before getting the item. Other people like the experience of shopping, being seen, entering stores, seeing things and talking to store people.

Every customer is an individual and different, at the same time as they are all similar. Customers who also like to use websites are also different. And even the same customer is different on different days. Sometimes they will look at the website and then go into a store. Sometimes they will order online. 

C: Have you ever bought anything online from Yahoo or Ruten, like clothes or CDs? Not everyone likes to use their computers and the Internet to buy things. But shopping online is becoming more and more popular.

Argos is a big retailer with many stores all over the U.K. which also has an online operation. It tries to integrate its two different forms of retailing, because its experience is that sometimes a customer will buy online and at other times the same customer will check the website to find information and then go into a store to buy the item. 

So it has to understand, or try to recognize, what customers want to do on the site while they are still there. It also has to keep prices in its stores the same as prices for the same goods online.

D: Have you ever bought anything online from Yahoo or Ruten, like clothes or CDs? Not everyone likes to use the Internet to shop. But shopping online is becoming more and more popular.

The Internet is having a big influence on the retail market. Internet retailers can offer cut-throat prices because they do not have to run stores. Websites that publish comparisons of the prices on top online retailers make the market even more competitive.

Some retailers who sell both online and in stores have tried to handle this problem by charging different prices for goods on their websites and in their stores.

This dual pricing is becoming harder to practice as customers become better at surfing the Internet. Some people say retailers should integrate their operations so shoppers can buy online and pick up their purchases in stores.
