Steven:
Oscar:
Genny:
Natalie:
Ms Van Houten:
Brady:
Miles:
0:56 Hey. Hey, what's this.
Student-led PE class.
Hey, that's way cool.
I know exactly what we should do.
Genny, Natalie: Yoga.
Steven, Oscar: Sports.
Natalie: Classroom sports?

1:13 Natalie: For our PE classroom entry, Genny and I have decided to do a yoga class.
Genny: It's really calming or something. And everybody who's anybody does yoga.
Natalie: I heard that J.Lo lost all her baby weight after the twins just doing yoga.
Genny: She had twins?
Natalie: Where've you been for the last year?
Genny: Hey, cool.

Oscar: Hey, we heard about the new PE class idea. How do we get our idea inaugurated?
Van Houten: Errm, Well, I think you probably need to make a video or a demo, or something like that, so that we can review it. Umm, because we've got to look at all the options.
Oscar: Okay.
Steven: When is it ... When should we have it in by?
Van Houten: Uh, December 15th.
Steven: Okay.
Van Houten: That'd work. Okay. Bye.

Van Houten: Hi. Hi, ladies.
Genny: We heard about the PE class, the student-led, the class opening thing.
Van Houten: Yup.
Genny: And we were wondering, um, how do we get ourselves nominated.
Van Houten: You mean you have an idea for, for what to do in the class?
Natalie: Oh, yeah.
Van Houten. Okay. And what we're doing is we're having students develop, um, videos or demos, or something like that, so we can view what your idea is and then we can decide.
Genny, Natalie: Okay.
Van Houten: So, if you can have that done by December 15th, we'll review it.
Natalie: How about in ...
Van Houten: Okay, we can go with that. How about January 15th. 
Genny: All right. Sounds good!

The students all decided the student-led PE class s

Steven: Hey. Check it out. We just got, I just got these awesome new hats for classroom sports.
Oscar: (inaudible) They don't even fit on your head.
Steven: You shut up. I got mine for 2008 Wild West showdown, man. (inaudible)

Oscar: Classroom Sports Event One. Classroom sprinting
Steven: First you've got to steal something from your teacher, then leg it to the nearest bathroom in the fastest time possible. Your time runs up when you get inside the bathroom.
Oscar: Let's do it.

...

Oscar: Classroom Sports Event Two. Classroom rodeo
Steven: First you've got to find a random person. Then you sneak up behind them, jump on their back and see how long you can stay on top of them, like riding a bull. Best time wins.
Oscar: Let's do this.

Steven: Hey, Lawrence. Hold it right there. Got a question for you. Ha, ha! Er, why isn't he moving?

Oscar: Classroom Sports Event Three. Classroom (inaudible)
Steven: You just find a bunch of random stuff. Then you run into a classroom and chuck them at people. And you get points every time you nail someone. Let's do this.


