Design 2 report
This road is a farmers' market which features a lively conglomeration of
different stalls. I was particularly interested in understanding why the tents displaying the market’s name are mostly red. When designing the map, I noticed there are two important colors in the market--red and white; in addition, blue and white stripes are also popular. Later on, I found an online article suggesting that unifying the color of the stalls in a market can stimulate business. Is this true? To find out, I designed a cute clipboard questionnaire for the purposes of a market survey. I discovered that the conclusion of the online article is not correct and found that some stores are significantly more popular because of their competitive prices and quality. I chose to interview the managers of a famous meat stand, fish stand, egg stand and rock music stand, which always attracts customers with its interesting music. I decided to design a guide book and app to introduce these high value vendors, and feature the white, red, blue and white stalls and vintage design on a hand-drawn map. On the map, I have put some commodity iconography, such as chicken, egg, fish and meat figures to make it more interesting. I hope that through my questionnaire and interviews, more authentic stories and good vendors can be introduced to local residents. I was rebuffed 3 to 4 times while collecting this data. I brainstormed how to make the guide book more interesting and the app user-friendly so that it would attract residents to these vendors; thus I use a combination of stalls, drawings and photos to convey my ideas. At the end of the book, I additionally introduce a small park nearby; it is an art city with frequent free activities for residents to participate in. 
Additionally, I designed a book cover for the book. When I did my research using the questionnaire on the street, I found a couple who had been selling fabric for a long time in the market. The prices of the fabric were reasonable, and there were a variety of fabrics to choose from. Although there are other fabric shops on the street, after comparisons, I still recommend the store I introduce in my guidebook.
I bought a piece of fabric while I was in this store. I hope the vintage white color of the fabric matches the content of my book. The cover represents the pattern of a stall, which is made of all kinds of materials including fabric and features classic curves following different lines. 
Although locals might come to the market every week, they might not know where they can buy things at the most reasonable prices. Therefore, I did this research in order to introduce them to a butcher's shop, fish shop, fabric shop, egg shop, CD stores, and free cultural center that are worth visiting. I also include my questionnaire in the book, showing why local residents choose certain shops and whether they think the stall appearance affects their business. Hopefully, the whole book conveys the feeling of the traditional market. 


