Chapter One
Introduction
Background and Motivation
¡@¡@English is the most widely-used language in the world, as an international language for people to communicate with others. Our education system emphasizes English learning. The educational purposes of this are to help students enter the best colleges. English is an essential language course in primary school, junior and senior high school, and college. It is also one of the important subjects vocational high school students have to pass in order to enter college.
¡@¡@Compared with academic senior high school students, vocational senior high school students usually have lower English proficiency levels. The current problems in vocational high school education are as follows (Ã¹¬ü­s, 2000). First, insufficient English class hours may limit students¡¦ development in the four language skills. Second, vocational high school students have more subjects to study than academic senior high school students. English is not the most important subject for them. Third, their foundations in English are not good. Fourth, their parents do not expect high achievement in learning English. ¼B»y(2002) offered some suggestions to improve vocational high school education, including increasing English class hours, reducing class size, enabling students to read more English books in the school library, and involving them in English activities such as English spelling contests.
¡@¡@The obstacles that most vocational high students encounter in learning English include class time constraints, large class sizes, lack of motivation, counter-productive learning attitudes, high language anxiety, and feeling frustration in the process of English learning (Huang, 2004; Luo, 2000; Sue, 2004). Dulay and Burt (1977) pointed out that affective variables such as motivation and attitudes have an influence on how well learners learn a foreign language. McDonough (1983, p.142) suggested that ¡§motivation of the students is one of the most important factors influencing their success or failure in learning the language.¡¨(p.42) Foreign language anxiety also plays an important role during the learning process (Horwitz, Horwitz, & Cope, 1986). According to Bailey, Daley, and Onwuegbuzie (1999), however, some students who perform well in foreign language classes still suffer from high levels of foreign language anxiety. Attitude is another crucial factor that determines a learner¡¦s success in foreign language learning (Brown, 2001; Ellis, 1994; Gardner & Lambert, 1972). Dornyei and Csizer (2002) indicated that a positive attitude facilitates learning while a negative attitude impedes a learner¡¦s learning.
Purpose of the study
¡@¡@The purposes of this study are to investigate (1) vocational high school students¡¦ anxieties learning English, (2) vocational high school students¡¦ motivations learning English, (3) vocational high school students¡¦ attitudes toward English learning, (4) the relationship between vocational high school students¡¦ anxiety and motivation in English learning, (5) the relationship between vocational high school students¡¦ motivation and attitudes toward English learning, and (6) the relationship between vocational high school students¡¦ anxiety and attitudes to English learning.
Research Questions
  Again, the purpose of the study is to explore vocational high school students¡¦ anxiety, motivation, and attitudes to English learning. The research questions are listed as follows:
1. What are vocational high school students¡¦ anxieties in English learning?
2. What are vocational high school students¡¦ motivations in English learning?
3. What are vocational high school students¡¦ attitudes toward English learning?
4. What is the relationship between vocational high school students¡¦ anxiety and the motivation to learn English?
5. What is the relationship between vocational high school students¡¦ motivation and attitude to learning English?
6. What is the relationship between vocational high school students¡¦ anxiety and attitude to English learning?

Significance of the study
¡@The results of the study should help teachers to understand vocational high school students¡¦ anxiety, motivation, and attitude to learning English, and the relationships among these three affective variables. This study may offer teachers in vocational high schools increased awareness of their students¡¦ English learning anxiety, motivation, and attitude, and thus help students learn English more efficiently and effectively. In particular, the findings may help teachers to find ways to increase students¡¦ motivation and decrease anxiety learning English.





Chapter Two
Literature Review
¡@¡@In this chapter, the researcher reviews the literature about students¡¦ learning anxiety, motivation, and attitude. The chapter consists of the following six sections: (a) definition of anxiety, (b) empirical studies on language learning anxiety, (c) definition of motivation, (d) empirical studies on language learning motivation, (e) definition of attitude, and (f) empirical studies on language learning attitude.
The Definition of Anxiety
¡@¡@Anxiety is commonly described by psychologists as a state of apprehension, a vague fear that is only indirectly associated with an object (Hilgard, Atkinson, & Atkinson, 1971, cited by Scovel, 1978; p.134). Sarason (1984) defined anxiety as ¡§a complex state that includes cognitive, emotional, behavioral, and bodily reactions¡¨ (p. 931). Horwitz et al (1986) further defined anxiety as ¡§the subjective feeling of tension, apprehension, nervousness, and worry associated with an arousal of the autonomic nervous system¡¨ (p.125). May (1977) proposed that anxiety is an emotional response to a threat to some value that the individual holds essential to his/her existence as a personality. Scovel (1978), quoting Hilgard, Atkinson, & Atkinson (1971), agreed that anxiety is a vague emotion not directly elicited by an object. Spielberger (1983) mentioned that anxiety is an unpleasant emotional response while
 coping with threatening or dangerous situations.
The Construct of Foreign Language Anxiety
¡@¡@Horwitz et al. (1986) developed a theory of foreign language classroom anxiety in order to break down the construct of foreign language anxiety into researchable issues. In this theory, there are three subcomponents that make up foreign language anxiety: communication apprehension, test anxiety, and fear of negative evaluation.
Communication Apprehension
¡@Communication apprehension was defined by McCroskey (1977) as ¡§a person¡¦s level of fear or anxiety associated with either real or anticipated communication with another person or persons¡¨(cited by Horwitz, 1986, p.156). Horwitz (1986) further described communication apprehension as ¡§a type of shyness characterized by fear of or anxiety about communicating with people¡¨ (p.127).
¡@Richmond & McCroskey (1989) again defined communication apprehension the same way as ¡§an individual¡¦s level of fear or anxiety associated with either real or anticipated communication with another person or persons¡¨ (p. 37). Other researchers agree the term ¡§communication apprehension¡¨ refers to learners¡¦ level of fear or anxiety related to real or anticipated communication with other people (eg, Mejias et al., 1991). 
  According to these theorists, communication apprehension plays a very important part in language learning when learners communicate with each other.
Test Anxiety
  The second subcomponent, test anxiety, can be defined as a combination of physiological, cognitive and behavioral responses to the experience of testing and/or other types of academic evaluation (Bostick, 1992, p. 36).
  Horwitz (1986) referred to test anxiety as ¡§a type of performance anxiety stemming from a fear of failure¡¨ (p.127). Sarason (1978) defined test anxiety as ¡§the tendency to view with alarm the consequences of inadequate performance in an evaluative situation¡¨ (p.214). Hill and Wigfield (1984) pointed out three reasons for test anxiety: the first reason was that tests often have time limits and pressure of an evaluation or grading. Second, the difficulty levels of the test questions often put a lot of pressure on students, because the test is designed to discriminate students¡¦ skills. Test-anxious language learners often lack self-confidence. Third, test formats; essay questions usually put more stress on students than multiple-choice questions. These feelings about tests produce lots of stress for language learners, scaring them and influencing their performance in foreign language learning tasks.  
Fear of Negative Evaluation
  Fear of negative evaluation was Horwitz's third subcomponent of language anxiety. Fear of negative evaluation and failure are defined as a worried feeling about others¡¦ (teachers or peers) evaluations, distress over negative evaluations that have been received, and the anticipation that others will evaluate them negatively in the future (Watson & Friend, 1969, as cited in Wu, 2002). As a result, some language learners even try to avoid evaluative situations.
¡@The fear of speaking in front of student¡¦s peers has also been recognized as a situational source of anxiety in foreign language classrooms (Price, 1991; Young, 1990). Horwitz et al. (1986) found that language classrooms were threatening for many students. Students were often required to communicate with their peers publicly in an unfamiliar language and were evaluated publicly as well while engaged in communicative conversation in language classrooms. 
Empirical studies on anxiety
  Anxiety is one of a number of affective variables which are the most influential in second or foreign language learning. According to Humphreys and Revelle (1984), anxiety is one of the most commonly accepted causes of motivationally induced deficits in performance (p. 175).
¡@Young¡¦s (1990) investigation from the student¡¦s perspective of speaking anxiety showed that students feel most anxious when they have to speak in front of their peers in a language class. Young¡¦s research (1991) showed that 68% of the participants said that they would feel more comfortable if there was no need to speak in front of their classmates.
  Rebecca Oxford also suggested that foreign language anxiety (FLA), or the experience of anxiety when an individual is working towards attaining a foreign language, is one of the main determinants of language learning success. According to a variety of researchers (e.g., Horwitz, Horwitz, & Cope, 1986; MacIntyre & Gardner, 1989, 1991a, 1991b), FLA is a predictor of success in learning the foreign language. FLA, as defined here, needs to be distinguished from anxiety, as commonly described in the general field of psychology, where it is, as noted above, a state of apprehension, a vague fear that is only indirectly associated with an object (Hilgard, Atkinson, and Atkinson 1971).
  FLA is ¡§a distinct complex of self-perceptions, beliefs, feelings, and behaviors related to classroom language learning arising from the uniqueness of the (foreign) language learning process¡¨ (Horwitz et al., 1986, p. 128). FLA is distinct from state anxiety, which occurs within specific, temporary situations and fades when the threat (or situation) disappears (MacIntyre & Gardner, 1991a; Spielberger & Vagg, 1995). FLA is also distinct from trait anxiety, which is a permanent, individual difference.
¡@Foreign Language Classroom Anxiety (FLCA) may result for varied reasons. In Foreign Language Classroom Anxiety, as distinct from Foreign Language Anxiety, there is a specific complex of self-perceptions, beliefs, feelings, and behaviors related to classroom language learning, arising from the uniqueness of the language learning environment (Horwitz et al., 1986). Moreover, the level of anxiety is higher with the influence of teachers and peers in a language classroom (Bekleyen, 2004).
FLCAS
  The Foreign Language Classroom Anxiety Scale (Horwiz et al.,1983) is used to identify the most prevalent foreign language learning anxieties experienced by students. They are asked to read each of the anxiety descriptions and to rate their agreement /disagreement with the self-descriptions on a Likert scale of 1-5 where: 1= strongly disagree; 2= disagree; 3= neither disagree nor agree; 4= agree; and 5 strongly agree.
The Definition of Motivation
¡@According to Gardner (1985), learning motivation refers to the amount of effort expended and desire felt by learners to accomplish their goals. Day and Bamford (1998) defined motivation as the learners¡¦ emotional drive, or lack thereof, that ¡§makes people do (or not do) something¡¨ (p. 27). Brown (1994) defined motivation as the extent to which you make choices about (a) goals to pursue and (b) the effort you will devote to that pursuit. As a social psychologist, Gardner (1985) pointed out L2 motivation refers to ¡§the extent to which the individual works or strives to learn the language because of a desire to do so and the satisfaction experienced in this activity¡¨ (p.10). Motivation is generally acknowledged as important in second language (L2) learning. It is classified into two types; intrinsic and extrinsic. Intrinsic motivation, commonly associated with integrative orientation, refers to the desire to perform an action without external inducement or reward (Bandura, 1977). The Academic Motivation Scale (AMS), supported in Self-Determination Theory, has been applied in recent decades in high school as well as in college education (Vallerand et al., 1992).
Extrinsic motivation
¡@Extrinsic motivation, which is usually associated with instrumental orientation, is a learner¡¦s desire for achievement to get an external reward (Pitmann & Boggiano, 1992). Extrinsic motivation refers to the instrumental value represented by external rewards or the avoidance of punishment as fundamental goals rather than spontaneous interest (Deci & Ryan, 2000). Gardner and Lambert (1959) believe that learners are either integratively (interpretable as intrinsic) or instrumentally (interpretable as extrinsic) oriented. 
Intrinsic motivation
¡@Intrinsic motivation, commonly associated with integrative orientation, refers to the desire to perform an action without external inducement or reward (Bandura, 1977). Intrinsic motivation is crucial to maintaining one¡¦s interest, allowing the student to continue his/her learning of the English language through distance education, for example. Students may be intrinsically motivated only for activities that they perceive as being personally interesting and enjoyable (Reeve et al.,2007). Intrinsic motivation refers to engagement for its own sake and to the interest, pleasure and satisfaction resulting from the learning experience, and is aroused by an inherent mental state, like curiosity, preference enjoyment and other individual properties (Deci, 1975).

The Definition of Attitude
  Chin (1992) defined learning attitude as the positive or negative evaluation of students toward learning objects. Attitude is a complex psychological construct. It refers, in one definition, to ¡§a learned predisposition to respond in a consistently favorable or unfavorable manner with respect to a given object¡¨ (Fishbein & Ajzen, 1975, p. 6, cited in McKenna, 1994). In Gardner¡¦s viewpoint (1985), attitude refers to ¡§an evaluative reaction to some referent or attitude object, inferred on the basis of the individual¡¦s beliefs or opinion about the referent¡¨ (p.9). Attitude, according to the behaviorist perspective has only one component ¡V the affective ¡V while according to the mentalist perspective, it has three components: the affective, the conative, and the cognitive (Dittmar, 1976, p. 181). The affective component refers to emotional reactions, the cognitive to an individual¡¦s belief structure, and the conative comprehends the tendency to behave in a certain way towards the object (see also Gardner, 1985). The difference between an attitud and an opinion is that an attitude is a general evaluative orientation toward an object or class of objects, while an opinion is narrower in scope and generally more cognitive in nature (Oskamp & Schultz, 2005, p. 18). In the attrition literature, the migrant¡¦s attitude towards both L1 and L2 is generally considered to be the operative extralinguistic factor in shaping the migrant¡¦s language development (K?pke & Schmid, 2004; Schmid, 2011).	
¡@The mentalist perspective views attitudes as mental and neutral states of disposition (Allport, 1967) that are not directly observable, but can be inferred from the subject¡¦s responses by using the right stimuli. Alternatively, the behaviorist theory views attitude as a response to a certain situation (Agheyisi & Fishman, 1970) and, consequently, considers it a dependent variable that can be statistically determined by observing behavior in social situations. In this study, attitudes were a dependent variable, but were not viewed as behavioristic responses to the situations of the vocational school students. 
  In summary, attitudes are an inner status that is expressed by evaluating particular objects, people or occurrences with a degree of like or dislike (Eagly & Chaiken, 1993). The may be further characterized by the object of evaluation Chin (1992) pointed out that two relevant learning attitudes are attitudes toward study, and attitudes toward the learning environment.
Classroom Activities
¡@As for the learning environment, in Koch and Terrell¡¦s (1991) research more than half of their subjects stated that oral presentations in front of their classmates were the main reason for their language anxiety, which then affects attitude. Classroom activities such as speaking, listening, and other oral classroom activities are the most problematic and anxiety-provoking for foreign language learners (Horwitz et al., 1986; Mej?as et al., 1991; MacIntyre & Gardner, 1994; Price, 1991; Steinberg & Horwitz, 1986).
Empirical studies
  Han (2009) investigated the study of vocational high school students¡¦ English learning motivation, learning style, learning strategy and learning achievement. The results of her study showed that students were extrinsically motivated. Peng (2011) examined the correlation among motivation, test anxiety and proficiency in an English class. Result concluded that students get higher test anxiety and they were extrinsically motivated, and their perception and EM were significantly negatively correlated.
Wang (2007) investigated the relationship among students¡¦ English learning anxiety,
¡@attitudes and achievement. He concluded that vocational students¡¦ attitude was moderate.
¡@Some experiments have been performed on motivation in foreign language learning (Chuang, 2007; Gottfried, 1990; Han, 2009; Kang, 2004; Noels, 2001; Peng, 2011; Peng, 2002; Walqui, 2000). According to Gottfried (1990), motivation was positively related to achievement, perception of competence.
¡@A number of researchers have conducted empirical studies on learning attitudes (Buschenhofen, 1998; Gardner & Lambert, 1972; Inal, Evin & Saracaloglu, 2005; Jakobovits, 1970). Liao (2009) discovered that the students who attended cram school hold higher learning attitudes than those who did not.
¡@Some researches in Taiwan also revealed important influences about what Foreign Language Anxiety reference might impose on EFL learners recently.
The Relationship between Learning Anxiety Motivation, and Attitude
  Han (2009) investigated the study of vocational high school students¡¦ English learning motivation, learning style, learning strategy and learning achievement. The results of her study showed that students were extrinsically motivated.
¡@Various studies have conducted on the interrelation between attitudes and motivation (Clement, Gardner & Smythe, 1980; Liao, 2009; Tsai, 2008). Clement et al. (1980) conducted a study in Canada and found that students¡¦ integrative motivation was positively associated with students¡¦ learning attitudes towards the second language community. Tsai (2008) indicated that vocational high school students¡¦ learning motivation and attitude were positively correlated. Liao (2009) investigated
¡@the relationship of English learning attitude, motivation, self-efficacy and achievement of vocational high school students. The results showed that students in commerce department scored higher in English learning attitude and motivation than those in technological department.



1


