Some of the conversations by Hakka and Taiwanese groups, only scratched the
surface.

Conversations about food, I don't think are as important as conversations about
relationships between people.

Not all groups showed the 5 intercultural competences.  curiosity (and the
ability to put yourself in the other person's shoes), knowledge of the other
culture, interpretation of events, discovery (learning and application of that
learning in a conversation), critical cultural awareness.

For example, not many groups showed the ability to interpret the other culture,
eg to see how some behavior or activity in the other culture would be viewed if
it occurred in their own culture.

And not many groups showed that they knew a lot about the other culture.

Neither were they critical, ie saying whether something was good or bad.
Wesley was critical, but I'm not too sure on what he was basing his evaluation.

In this conversation, it was difficult to show the ability to discover (learn)
and use your new knowledge to be a better intercultural communicator. So I
didn't look for that in these conversations.

The best conversation was: 

Andrew (and Fanny?) with Eunice and Frank.

Andrew showed curiosity (and the ability to decenter) by asking whether Eunice
and Frank had suffered discrimination because of being Hakka.

Eunice said no, and interpreted the actions of her Taiwanese co-workers using
Taiwanese in her presence as being in-groupish (interpretative (?) and
evaluative). She said she understands 80 percent of Taiwanese, which shows a
lot of knowledge of the other culture.

Frank described interactions with his Taiwanese in-laws in Taiwanese, of which
he said he understands 80 percent too. Despite his knowledge of Taiwanese, he
said his in-laws look down their nose at his mistakes when he uses the
language. He was evaluating this behavior.

In other conversations, Hakka students just described some Hakka customs to
their Taiwanese partners, or one or both parties just interpreted or evaluated
their own cultures. I did not rate these conversations so highly.

One Hakka woman whose mother was Taiwanese said her mother liked to have
visitors in her home. She was interpreting this in relation to other Hakka
households where she apparently saw less inter-household visiting. This showed
the ability to interpret and relate.
