Savoirs 3 and 4

Savoir 3

Savoir 3 is being able to understand, or interpret, a surprising or confusing intercultural event, in terms of what you know of your OWN culture. It is the OPPOSITE of Savoir 1. If you have Savoir 1, you are trying to forget your own culture and you are trying to join the other culture.

My example of Savoir 3 is understanding why Taiwanese students don't seem to be very good at English, compared to Korean students and Japanese students.

I've taught all 3 groups of students and Taiwanese students seem to have been the worst of the three at English, or at least, the least motivated to learn English.

I don't actually have Savoir 3 in this case. I can't interpret this. I do understand, however, I have to be very careful when making comparisons. The types of student I was teaching in Korea and Japan are different than the types I am teaching here.

In Japan I didn't teach in schools. I only taught private students or students who were highly motivated. In Korea I first taught in good hakweon (학원), ie, bushiban (補習班.) And then I taught in a good university. There were some required classes at this good university, however, where the students had to study English and didn't really want to. There, the students were not so good.

When I came to Taiwan, I taught for 10 years at 親民技術學院, where there were some good students, but most of the students hated being there. I had never taught students like that before, and they have formed my impression of Taiwanese students.

The students here at 聯合 are better, but I still see some similarities. Even in my elective conversation classes here, most of the students don't seem very interested in learning English, and are unwilling to participate in classroom activities. I can't understand why they decided to join the class. It still appears to me Taiwanese students are not so interested in learning English.

But my experience in the three countries has been in such different situations, that it is impossible to make judgements about the English abilities of students in the three countries.

I also need to remember that studying in a classroom is the best way to deaden interest in a subject. I remember when I was doing my master's degree with American soldiers on an American army base. One day, the professor didn't come to class. We waited about 45 minutes for the 2 hour class before she appeared. She said that she had been in the library and lost track of time.

I had seen her in the library before the class. I told the other students that I had seen her there, but none of us talked about going to see if she was there. None of us wanted to find her.

But I still can't understand or interpret my experience of the lack of ability and interest of Taiwanese students in English. That is, I don't have Savoir 3 in this case.

Savoir 4

Savoir 4 is the most difficult of the 5 Savoirs, except for Savoir 5, perhaps. It is the ability to learn more than you already know, the ability to gain more Savoir 2 and 3 and 5 by DOING things. It is also the ability to USE what you know in real-life intercultural communication. If you can explain to someone something about the other culture, you also have Savoir 4.

I don't know if I have Savoir 4. I am trying to explain intercultural communication to you, because I think it is very important, and wonderful. I don't know if I am doing a very good job. I think you have to experience it yourself, rather than listen to someone talk about it.

Here is my example. An American friend, before he left Taiwan to return to the US in 2003-2004 sometime, said some disparaging things in a conversation to me about Taiwan.

I took them with a 'grain of salt,' because sometimes he was quite critical, but without, as far as I could see, much basis for his criticism. He was good-natured about his criticism, and often I could see there was some truth in what he said. At other times, I did not know what he was talking about. For example, he would criticize a Chinese teacher's English abiliity, but his own Chinese ability, despite being married to a Taiwanese woman, was not very good. He was always respectful about his wife, and his wife's family, so I think he was a good guy.

Anyway, when he criticized Taiwan or Taiwanese politics, I said that Nixon, the US president who broke off American diplomatic relations with the Republic of China and recognized mainland China instead in 1972, visited Taiwan in 1953, when he was US vice-president, to open Tunghai University. I said to my friend Taiwan must have made a bad impression on Nixon at that time in 1953.

I don't know if I was trying to confirm or challenge my friend's disparaging attitude. I doubt I had much effect on him. He had been in Taiwan longer than me and knew more about it than me.

I think I am sensitive to intercultural communication, but I may not be a good learner. I don't think I have the ability to ask the right question to find out about Taiwanese atttitudes to smiling at people in the street, for example. I am trying to smile less at people, but I don't know if I am doing it right or not.

I don't think I have much Savoir 4.
