Learning through engaging in reflection on the intuitive change process

Abstract
Five years ago, having previously had 7 years of work experience as a clinical nurse in a hospital, I realised that nurses’ English proficiency is problematic, and this has severe adverse effects on clinical nursing practice. I decided to make a change to this situation—to add a role play component in the professional nursing English course I was teaching at a nursing college. In this article, I summarise the change process, which included three stages: the information gathering stage, the action stage and the evaluation stage, and I reflect on the actions and events experienced. Lewin’s action inquiry model serves as a systematic approach to examine my intuitive inquiry process in the study. Through writing up each stage in the intuitive change process gone through, I realised that my story had the potential to construct knowledge on which I could base my teaching practice.  

Keywords: action research, retrospective reflection, English for Specific Purposes






















1. Background and context of the inquiry 
The original idea of conducting this action inquiry came from my personal work experience as a clinical nurse from 2002 to 2009 and as a part-time English teacher at a nursing college from 2007 to 2013.  

1.1  Work experience as a nurse (2002-2009)
I worked as a nursing professional at a district hospital in Taipei, the capital city of Taiwan. During my nursing career, I had a lot of experience of caring for patients who were from different countries (e.g. Japan, Korea, Thailand, America, etc.). English, without any doubt, is an important oral communication tool for foreigners and Taiwanese healthcare professionals as they share no native tongue. Most of my nurse colleagues noted that they had no idea how to use English to communicate with foreign patients. Some of them admitted that they had used doctors as interpreters to complete their nursing duties. I even saw some cutting down the time they took to check foreign patients’ conditions in order to avoid speaking with them. I discussed with them what I had noticed, and the typical response was that ‘caring for foreign patients is very scaring for me. I’m afraid of the time when they ask me questions. I will try not to care for such patients’. In addition, I was invited to interpret for my colleagues performing their nursing duties several times (e.g. collecting past history information, giving clinical instructions, discussing nursing care plans with patients, etc.), acting as a bridge connecting them with foreign patients. My colleagues’ experience had a profound influence on me. It made me understand how important the role of English is in Taiwan and how critical it is for future nurses to be fluent in English.

1.2 Work experience as a part-time English teacher (2009-2012)
My teaching career started from the year 2009. I taught nursing English courses at several nursing colleges. As a new teacher with limited teaching experience, I had some discussions with senior teachers who were responsible for teaching the same courses to other classes at the colleges in order to understand their previous teaching experience. I wanted to find out about the teaching methods they adopted, the learning activities they had designed and the students’ response to their classes. I also sought out some high-rated English teachers and audited several of their classes, taking copious notes. The main message I obtained from the senior teachers and my class notes was that the Grammar Translation Approach (GTA) is an effective way to teach English in a large class and in a limited time period. With the same handouts and teaching aids that the other more-experienced teachers had used, I did not need to design many learning activities, which reduced much of the teaching burden for a part-time English teacher for whom teaching hours totalled more than 20 hours per week. Therefore, I explicitly explained vocabulary items and grammatical rules, and translated every sentence in class. Students, for their part, played a relatively passive role. Their main job was to sit quietly in the class and absorb knowledge. The mid-term and final examinations mainly tested the vocabulary, grammar, reading comprehension and translation content I had covered in the the course. For a long time, I felt reasonably comfortable with this teaching approach, which allowed me to finish courses on time despite a tight schedule. I tried to convince myself that I was a great English teacher and did a great job, using the fact that most of my students obtained good grades in exams. However, I knew clearly in my mind that students’ oral skills in English were a major deficiency resulting from the teaching approach I adopted. Then one day, some students complained to me that the nursing English course was boring and not useful. Arming then in their complaints was their conviction that the course was not preparing them to confidently use English in interactions with foreign patients, of which they had had some experience in clinical nursing placements while still studying. Their accounts of their experiences forced me to face reality and accept the fact that there was a need to introduce a change to my teaching approach. Being an English teacher who had been involved in nursing in the hospital context for some years, I was a suitable choice for the task of introducing a new and different teaching approach since I clearly knew nursing practice and realistic English use in the hospital. Therefore, I tried to develop some new teaching methods which would enhance students’ communication competence and maximise their opportunities to practise their listening and speaking skills in English during the class so that this identified problem could be overcome. Thus, the purpose of this study has three dimensions: to introduce the process that I undertook in 2010 in order to make a change in my teaching practice, to describe the experience of involvement in a retrospective reflection and to assess this intuitive, ad hoc process against the systematic model of action inquiry proposed by Lewin (Adelman, 1993). 

2. Literature Review 
2.1 Current trend of nursing practice in Taiwan  
In the 1970s, the notion of rights spread out to the philosophy of healthcare, and the development of the idea that patients have the right to know changed their roles from being passive recipients to actively taking part in their own treatment. Medical professionals were portrayed as autocratic and domineering from the position of patients at the time. The trend towards the right to know changed patients’ views of healthcare professionals from absolute belief in them as legitimate authorities to instrumental acceptance of them as a means for the recovery of health (Hoekje, 2007). In the case of Taiwan, the concept of patients’ right to know has also created a shift in the nursing care system. Nurses are not considered to be legitimate authorities anymore; instead, they are viewed as professionals whose job is to help patients recover from illness and to provide professional care. Patients, on the other hand, are regarded as having the right to know their health condition and to decide whether they want to take part in the treatment process (the National Union of Nurses’ Associations, 2006). In fact, according to the National Union of Nurses’ Associations, R.O.C. (2006), the supreme Taiwanese organisation setting the scope of nursing practice, there are four main duties in everyday nursing practice: (1) assessing patients’ health problems, (2) giving clinical instructions, (3) providing nursing care and (4) assisting doctors with medical behaviours and procedures. For the first duty, nurses need to gather as much information as possible from their patients to understand their health problems. Eight communication skills: open-ended questions, focused questions, probes, paraphrasing, exploring health-related habits, summarising, testing discrepancies and closing the interview are categorised as information-gathering skills and, according to Bosher and Smalkoski (2002, pp. 69-70), are frequently used in nursing practice nowadays to collect information from patients. For the second duty, healthcare providers in Taiwan have to actively offer information about nursing interventions, medications, side effects and so on to the patients they care for. As to the third and fourth duties, providing nursing care and assisting doctors with medical behaviours, before engaging in any nursing intervention or medical procedure (invasive or non-invasive), nurses need to explain the full procedure and all its purposes to their patients to get their permission. Only when permission is gained from patients are nurses allowed to carry out the nursing intervention or engage in the medical procedure (the National Union of Nurses’ Associations, 2008). From the descriptions above, it can be seen that communication is important in that it is the basis upon which quality nursing care can be provided and a good nurse-patient relationship can be built. Therefore, as can be imagined, nurses who care for foreign patients must have English competence in order to carry out their nursing duties. 

Considering the increasing language expectations and requirements placed on nurses, the government and hospitals in Taiwan have made some important reforms in order that nurses can prepare for the difficult linguistic realities and cope with the increasing English language demands awaiting them. The central government, in 2004, launched a programme called Hospital Creating an English-Friendly Living Environment (Taiwan College of Healthcare Executive, 2004). There were three major reforms brought about by this project: (1) creating English versions of various forms (e.g. treatment consent forms, application forms, hospitalisation procedure flow-charts, etc.) and providing English websites and monthly journals, (2) placing English translations of the names on all buildings, facilities, and direction signs and (3) encouraging healthcare professionals to learn professional medical English in order to be able to communicate with and care for foreign patients. In 2005, the government formulated another programme called Creating an English Living Environment (Executive Yuan, 2006). Public institutions (e.g. hospitals, banks, schools, etc.) were required to participate in this programme. They were asked to (1) provide English translations of the names of buildings, facilities and direction signs in the institutions, (2) publish English versions of journals, service lists, maps, and activity news about the institutions, (3) create English websites for the institutions and (4) train staff in professional English ability based on the specific needs of the institutions.   

Hospitals have also developed various English for Specific Purposes (ESP) courses for nursing professionals, with the ultimate goal of improving their English ability to levels sufficient to ensure the safety and the convenience of foreign patients and to enhance the reputation of English medium medical services in Taiwan (Lu et al., 2009). For example, in 2010, the National Union of Nurses’ Associations cooperated with a number of nursing colleges/universities to design a series of professional nursing English courses called Professional Clinical English Conversation in the hope of enhancing the oral-aural English skills of clinical nurses. In 2006, the Chang-Gung Memorial Hospital (the largest medical centre in Taiwan) launched a project aimed at improving the English listening and speaking competence of the nurses working in the outpatient department. The hospital interviewed 50 foreign patients, exploring their opinions about the outpatient department medical services. Only 32% of them were satisfied with the services provided. The major reason for this was due to the nurses’ poor English communication ability. Consequently, a programme to improve the outpatient department nurses’ English communication skills was launched. The hospital developed handouts with examples of professional nursing English, and arranged a series of nursing English courses to increase the opportunities for its staff to practise professional English (Lu et al., 2009). Similarly, in 2006, in view of the inability of its nurses to speak in English with foreign patients, the Mackay Memorial Hospital (another large-scale medical centre in Taiwan) also proposed a scheme to increase the English conversation ability of the nurses in the Delivery Room (Kao et al., 2007).  

2.2 Retrospective reflection in teaching practice  
According to McNiff and Whitehead (2005), reflection is to think in a systematic and active way, structuring one’s thinking by asking oneself questions about what one does and why the thing is being done in certain ways, in order to achieve improvements in the future. This concept is similar to the idea of looking into a mirror or a body of clean water. Yet what is reflected is something beneath the surface, well beyond what one can see. The process ‘transforms the individual perhaps not in physicality, but in thought’ (Brevig, 2006, p. 523). Reflection on action (Schön, 1983), also called ‘retrospective reflection’ (Loughran, 1996, p. 108), refers to deliberately taking time to think back over one’s actions in order to learn from them (Munby & Russel, 1992). Although this kind of reflection is not a common focus in most accounts of action research, it has the potential to deepen one’s understanding, to realise how one’s beliefs have contributed to certain outcomes and hopefully to provide greater insights to future actions (Pine, 2009). Such a process, according to Mena-Marcos and Tillema (2006, p.116), is ‘knowledge construction’ because the essence of retrospective research is to construct new knowledge for future practice. As Hamilton and Pinnegar (1998, p. 234) claim, ‘[It] holds invaluable promise for developing new understandings and producing new knowledge about teaching and learning’. Therefore, the assumption of retrospective reflection is that one can learn something valuable from past experience by deliberately reviewing what one has done before. Knowledge and generalisation which are gained from past experience and which are able to be applied to new practice can be developed by such a review process (Schön, 1983; Van Manen, 1977). Mena-Marcos and Tilleme (p. 2006, p. 116) emphasise that ‘the representation of authenticity or directness of experiences’ is key to the building of knowledge in retrospective reflection as knowledge is accumulated from the events in which an individual is involved, experienced and reflected on (Williams, 1983).  

In education, considerable attention has been devoted to teacher reflection. The close relationship between teaching and reflection is succinctly expressed by Hart et al. (1992, p.10), ‘…if we don’t reflect, we are teaching in the dark without knowing if we are effective and if we should modify our teaching’. The teacher’s behaviour(s) and teaching practice are profoundly and pedagogically influenced by his or her personal theories and beliefs. It is possible that the teacher is unaware of the profound influence of his or her own theories and beliefs since he or she is concentrating so much on teaching. Therefore, reflection is an element essential to understanding and thus improving teaching practice as it is able to unveil and examine how much the teacher’s teaching practice has been influenced and shaped by his or her own teacher beliefs and personal theories (Zeichner & Liston, 2014). Pine (2009) and Somekh (2006) note that, through reflection, teachers are provided with an opportunity to bring their teaching beliefs to the surface, to reconstruct their pedagogical knowledge and thus to adapt their teaching practice to meet learner needs. Such a process is beneficial and instructive to the professional development of teachers. Therefore, the aim of this study is to look back at a change process and to reflect on the actions and events experienced, demonstrating the value of engaging in a retrospective reflection process for the professional growth in my teaching career.  

3. The change process 
The whole change process is divided into three main stages: (1) information gathering stage, (2) action stage and (3) evaluation stage. During the entire process, I was a researcher and an object of the study; therefore, I was crucially integrated into this inquiry. My dual roles as a senior nursing professional and English teacher allowed me to get easy access to the perspectives of nursing professionals in the hospital as well as to the reforms at the colleges/universities with which I was affiliated. As the change process proceeded step by step, the understanding of my teaching practice became more condensed and the knowledge constructed and available for future improvement became deeper.

3.1 Information gathering stage
At this stage, four of my nursing colleagues who had rich clinical experience were invited to be information providers. The four were from different departments of the hospital: two of them from the specialist centre, one from the surgical department, and one from the internal medicine department. I used lunch time, when they were off duty to discuss the following issues with each of them from the period of August to December, 2009.  

1. Which English language skills do you feel you need more than others to fulfil the requirements of being a clinical nurse (e.g. listening comprehension, vocabulary, sentence structure, etc.)?  
2. Did specific nursing English courses provided by your nursing college/university give you the English language skills required by the job? If so (not), why? 
3. Are you satisfied with nursing English courses provided by the nursing college/university? If so (not), why?
4. How could educational arrangements be organised in a way which would be more beneficial to nursing students?  

For the first issue, all of the nurses considered listening and speaking competence in English to be the most important for carrying out their nursing duties as they thought it was necessary for providing quality nursing care. They had a lot of experience of caring for foreign patients; however, the experiences were negative due to their lack of listening and speaking skills in English. The following description shows an example of a nurse from the specialist centre recalling her experience of language difficulties while caring for foreign patients. This nurse, Yao, was involved in caring for victims of an air crash in 2000 in Taiwan. She was working in the Intensive Care Unit but was asked to give support at ER (the Emergency Room) as a large number of patients injured in the crash were sent to ER. The majority of the patients were from Singapore. As the patients from Singapore and Taiwanese healthcare professionals shared no native tongue, English became their main oral communication tool. She recalled an instance in which listening and speaking in English posed a barrier for her. Her account also indicates that there is a need to improve nurses’ English because of the many problems that their lack of English ability causes. 

What impressed me very much was the accident of the Singapore Airlines. At the moment, there were so many foreign patients flocking into ER for emergency care...I remember that there was a time I needed to teach one of my patients how to use crutches, and I wanted to say ‘Lift your uninjured leg when you go upstairs’ in English. But, I really had no idea how to say this and I needed to ask doctors to do this for me. Besides, they [Singaporean] wanted to know all the details about their treatments. I didn’t know how to answer their questions. All my work schedule was delayed because I spent a lot time on clarifying and gesticulating. 

The statement shows that the language barrier had three adverse effects for Yao. First, she needed to bother her colleagues to get them to help her perform her nursing duties. Second, her lack of English ability contributed to the disruption of her work schedule. Thirdly, the delays had a detrimental influence on the time she could spend on other patients’ care. And these three adverse effects meant for Yao it was a negative experience caring for foreign patients. 

As to the second issue, my colleagues believed that the ESP courses provided them during their college/university years did not fit them for their English-speaking duties as nurses. Their reason for saying this was the focus their ESP courses placed on reading and translation. However, what happens in the hospital context is that reading and translation are seldom used, except under the circumstance of seeking promotion (e.g. by reading English articles and then writing papers for publication). What is needed is listening and speaking competence in English. In other words, there is a gap between the perceived imagined needs of ESP teachers and the target needs of nurses. As Shan (a nurse from the surgical department) said,   

If you are good in speaking and listening in English, you patients [foreign patients] will trust you and will be willing to talk to you because they know you are able to help them. Thus, you will feel confident in yourself because you are fine in dealing with such patients. 

Regarding the third issue, my colleagues and I, all five of us, studied at different nursing colleges/universities in Taiwan when we were nursing students. However, all of our ESP teachers adopted GTA to teach English. My colleagues expressed their dissatisfaction with GTA, using the words ‘boring’ and ‘painful’ to describe their learning experience. They gave many examples of how their English courses were mainly makde up of lectures, rote memorisation and tests. Looking back as nurses with wide clinical experience in the hospital context, they believed that GTA is not suitable for nursing students as it does not provide any opportunity to acquire realistic English using experience and does not enhance listening and speaking competence in English, either. Ming (a nurse from the medical department) noted, 

She [the nursing English teacher] usually divided us into several groups and asked us to read the text. And then we were required to translate the text. She would be very angry and sometime yelled at us if we couldn’t achieve her requirement. This way of teaching was so boring and scaring. You read the text and translated it, and then? Nothing! You forgot everything after the class.   

For the fourth issue, teaching methods were indicated by my nursing colleagues to be the aspect of their courses which most needed to be reformed. They believed that nursing students need to learn English through pair-work, role play, group discussion, oral presentation, conversation practice with their teachers and other vivid communicative activities in which they can actively practise speaking and listening and get more realistic English using experience. Their reason for this was that these methods would have a positive effect on their ability to use English in oral communication with foreign patients in the hospital context. In addition, general English rather than technical English was another aspect they wished to see improved as the former serves as the main focus of communication with foreign patients. They believed that using vivid communicative activities to teach general English for oral communication with foreign patients was the right method for the development of oral-aural skills in English. 

3.2 Action Stage 
In February 2010, I decided to do a role-play project, running it in two of the nursing English classes I was teaching. Its purpose was to allow students to practise communication in English in a simulated target setting. The project was divided into two steps: (1) discussing & writing up and (2) acting out. For the 1st step, I had students divide into eight groups, with each group comprised of five students. They could choose any topic in the textbook and then they had to write the play script for a role play based on the topic chosen. The play script was expected to contain at least 15-20 new vocabulary items connected to the topic. Several meetings were arranged with each group to allow me to get a clear idea of what their topics were and how they were going to perform their plays. Some groups were particularly creative. For instance, they came up with interesting topics such as Cinderella with a myocardial infarction, or Sleeping Beauty in a coma, and intriguingly integrated medical & nursing knowledge with the fairy tale. For the majority of students, it was their first time to use English to perform a play. Therefore, they wanted to check almost every sentence with me to ensure the accuracy of their lines. There were two common problems in the students’ play scripts. First, students frequently used professional jargon (e.g. I want to check your vital sign) in their role plays. In the discussion in the information gathering stage with my nurse colleagues, all of us agreed that both technical English and general English are equally important. We agreed the former should be used in a strictly professional context, e.g. in shift reports, but we understood the latter serves as the main tool of communication with the public. However, what clinical nurses have difficulty with is general English due to their lack of practice during their college/university years. Therefore, students were encouraged to substitute short and simple sentences in general English for the technical English which they first sought to use. In this case, I told them, it would be easier for them to memorise and for other students to understand. Second, they tended to rely on others (e.g. me or students with a more advanced level of English) to translate for them, to fix their mistakes, or tell them whether their lines were correct or not. For example, they had difficulties in thinking of the expression ‘What brings you to the hospital today?’ in English, and they seldom tried to find out how this idea might be expressed themselves. This finding is important and perhaps explains why many clinical nurses tend to rely on doctors when they are required to use English to communicate with foreign patients. Therefore, students were encouraged to find out the answers themselves rather than to rely on someone to tell them when they encountered questions or difficulties in English. The play scripts were read, revised and discussed several times before students actually performed the plays. My role in this first step was twofold: as a facilitator whose job was to engage students in sharing their opinions, and as a feedback provider whose job was to suggest some ideas for performing and to correct their English. I appreciated the time when I was with my students in discussions as I could establish rapport with them and understand their English needs and difficulties. For the second step, acting out, each group was allocated 30 minutes to perform their plays. A representative of each group first used English to introduce the topic and review the vocabulary items covered, and then his or her group members acted out the play in the front of the classroom. I acted as an observer, taking notes without intervening unnecessarily. After the role play, there was time for other groups to use simple English to provide feedback. They were required to say how they felt about the play and which parts could be improved. In the end, I pointed out critical errors from the plays which would cause confusion.

3.3 Evaluation Stage
To understand the students’ perspectives on the new teaching method, an open-ended questionnaire was presented for students to write down perceived advantages and disadvantages, feelings they had and suggestions for future improvement. Based on their feedback, appropriate adjustments could be made to allow the students' voices to be heard. From an analysis of the responses of 102 students (2 classes), I understood that most of the students had a positive attitude towards the role plays. Categorising them, I identified two main features: (1) creating a supportive and active learning environment and (2) being an interesting, challenging teaching method to teach listening and speaking skills in English. As to the first category, the following data showed that students liked the role play in that it was able to create an atmosphere which the students did not feel was stressful or threatening. They could develop listening and speaking competence in an enjoyable learning environment and did not need to worry that they would be laughed at because of their poor English. As they said,

We need to learn English in a very supportive environment. Our oral-aural skills in English are very poor so a friendly environment is important for us to practise them. And no body would laugh our poor English.

I think this activity [role play] because it creates an atmosphere in which I want to actively learn English whenever I am enjoying other groups’ performances. I wish I could understand their English more.

Regarding the second category, the students believed that engaging in role plays was beneficial for them in that they could develop speaking and listening competence and confidence, and accumulate more realistic English using experience. Contributing to this belief was their finding that the teaching method was an interesting approach which made learning medical & nursing English a new experience. Usually, nursing students, having heard from older students who have already taken the course, expect nursing English to be a boring course which has to be taken as it is a compulsory subject. It is not interesting as it requires students to memorise the origin and construction of medical terminology. When the whole course is composed of nothing but explanations and instructions which fail to be consistently vivid, the majority of students actually have quite a negative attitude even though knowledge learned from the course is important for their future careers as professional nurses. As students noted, 

We know that knowledge of medical terminologies [in English] is important for us but we’ve heard from our seniors that this course is extremely boring and tedious. But I am quite happy with what this teacher gave us, including experience sharing and role plays. It is not as boring as I expected.

I think this activity [role play] is quite hard but interesting. And I like the part when the teacher arranged discussion time with us. It’s very interactive. Besides, I can learn a lot of vocabulary items and expressions which can be used in the daily life and in the hospital.

Of course, this was not true for every student who participated. For a few students, their attitude towards the role plays was negative. They still preferred the traditional teaching method, which emphasises a detailed explanation of vocabulary and grammar and rote memory. They also indicated that they had no idea why the role plays were needed as they consumed much of their time in preparing them. As they noted,   

I really don’t like it. We spend so much time in thinking about the topic, writing up the play script, and preparing all the stage props. I like other English teachers’ teaching methods. They are easier. You can just sit there and listen to the instruction.

It [role play] is too difficult for me. I cannot see its advantages to the development of our professional English ability, either.  

4. Retrospective reflections on the change process
Looking back on what I achieved during the change process, I realise that I learned different things at different stages. At the stage of information gathering, it was a valuable experience for me to discuss how we used English with other nursing professionals who worked in different departments. I become more aware of the different uses of English in nursing. Nurses who work in the various specialisations (e.g. ER) are on the front line interfacing with patients. Usually, patients receiving emergency care will be transferred to surgical or internal medicine wards for more complete medical examination and treatment. Therefore, there is time-limited interaction between these nurses and patients. What they need is general English to ask questions and to request actions when they encounter foreign patients, with expressions such as ‘What’s your problem today?’, ‘How many times have you had the runs?’, ‘Take a deep breath’, etc. On the other hand, nurses working in the internal medicine department have fewer opportunities to care for foreigners since patients seeking medical services there are usually elderly Taiwanese people with chronic diseases (e.g. liver diseases, diabetes, etc.) who need long term care. Therefore, rather than the general English used in communication with foreign patients, technical English (i.e. medical terminology) used in the context of shift reports is more important. As I was only involved in the surgical and psychiatric departments in my nursing career, I did not realise that there is a difference in how English is used in different nursing units. Therefore, this powerful finding not only reveals that demands placed on nurses by communication in English vary in different nursing units but also indicates that it is difficult to have an ESP course which is able to cater for the English needs of nurses working in different departments. It depends on what nursing specialisation nurses are going to engage in. If they are interested in working in the internal medicine department, vocabulary in technical English is more important for them. If they are going to the Emergency Room, they face more complex English language requirements. They need vocabulary, grammar, and speech act knowledge. Apart from an understanding of the different English needs in different nursing units, I also learned from my nursing colleagues not to push students over the edge. I appreciated my colleagues reminding me that there is no need to unilaterally impose our expectations on students, as this may lead to language learning anxiety. I had to admit that I did not consider this point. I was concentrating so much on thinking about how to improve the listening and speaking competence of my students. Originally, I had designed various communicative activities (e.g. debate, presentations, etc.) in order to develop their listening and speaking abilities; however, after discussion with my colleagues, I decided to put role play into action as a starting point.  

I learned that, during the action stage, it is important for students to have opportunities to develop learner autonomy. According to Mascolo (2009), outside-of-class work accounts for a significant part of college/university students' learning as most individual or group assignments are assigned to be done after class. In the field of language learning, according to Richards (2015), inside the classroom and outside of the classroom learning are both important elements determining successful learning outcomes. If the teacher provides proper structures and assistance for out-of-class learning, the student, based on his or her learning needs, can utilise these learning resources, tailoring them to own learning goals. On the other hand, giving students full control over their learning may not be proper as it is likely that students cannot benefit much from exploring learning on their own (Kornell & Bjork, 2007). In my teaching career, I had acted more like a controller who is in charge of student learning because I believed that this is the most effective way for students to learn English. However, seeing the efforts students made to prepare their role plays during their off-school hours, e.g., checking the dictionary, correcting their pronunciation and making the props, I changed my mind. Controlling may not be the best way; I could act as a facilitator to support student learning and as an observer to evaluate how much students have learned and what their main difficulties in English are. In other words, I could play a secondary role to help learners to achieve their goals, as in adult learning it is learners themselves who have control over the course of their learning. They do not rely completely on the teacher to make every decision about what to learn and how to learn. Students are allowed to have more control over their learning (Knowles, 1973). I neglected the fact that the students I taught are adult learners. To some extent, adult learners are mature enough to be responsible for their learning.  

When I reflect on what I achieved at the evaluation stage, I see students’ positive feedback encourages and motivates me to design more communicative activities in the future. I have to admit that I was worried about whether students were capable of writing play scripts and performing plays. It turned out that they overcame all of the difficulties. They wisely used various actual medical products (e.g. needles, gauze and thermometers, etc.), gestures and costumes to make their plays interesting and understandable. This finding in fact counters a stereotype that Chinese learners are willing to spend hours on learning vocabulary and grammar and that they see the communicative approach, focussing on communication in daily life situations, as a waste of time. Rather, they are willing to take a more active role in communicative activities in which they can work for a practical and common goal (Littlewood, 2000). More importantly, the role play experience may awaken students to an understanding that the strategies they adopted to make role plays readily understandable are in fact effective to get their messages across when they need to communicate with foreign patients in the workplace in the future. The number of foreign patients is increasing in Taiwan (Bureau of Employment & Vocational Training, 2015), and this suggests that Taiwanese nurses will have more opportunities to care for foreign patients in the future. To adopt negative strategies and to escape the situations in which English is needed should not be legitimate ways of coping with this trend. 

5. Matching up against Lewin’s Model of action inquiry
Kurt Lewin coined the term action research and viewed it as a collaborative and active process in which participants share their ideas and work together, conducting studies and solving identified social or organisational problems (Pine, 2009). It is a method of study, aiming to improve the relationship among groups as well as to address changes in society. Lewin proposes an action model featuring a spiral or cyclic description of the change process (see Fig. 1). My description of my intuitive change process adopts the flow of the inquiry process proposed by Lewin for two reasons. Firstly, as a novice researcher, I found that Lewin’s model is easy to grasp and comprehend. It clearly indicates the goals which have to be achieved in order to permit the inquiry process to move smoothly and successfully to the next stage. Secondly, the action research inquiry process, to some extent, is similar to the inquiry process I undertook intuitively in 2010, even if some elements, such as the amended plan and evaluation in the model, were missing. I had little knowledge about action research as a process suitable for introducing change at the time. Thus, the model serves as a framework in this research paper assisting me to examine what I learned at different steps and which parts of my intuitive inquiry were flawed and need to be improved.

Fig. 1 Lewin’s action research as interpreted by Kemnis (1980, cited in Elliott, 1991, p.70)











When comparing the change process I undertook (see Fig. 2) with the model inquiry process, I realised that the basic principle of the two is quite similar—to introduce a change in order to make an improvement in the situation one is involved. However, there are ways in which my intuitive inquiry process contradicts the model. First, I was working largely on my own rather than participating in a collaborative process. Second, what is emphasised in the action research model is the spiral of cycles; however, my research cycle did not continue after the evaluation stage. Although some parts of the role-play element were found to be deficient based on students’ feedback, I did not revise and continue it because of realistic limitations. Had I been aware of Lewin’s model at the time, the following elements would have been added.

Fig. 2 The intuitive inquiry process undertaken in 2010
















Note: Procedures ending with the question mare ‘?’ are missing in this action inquiry. 

At the reconnaissance stage:
1. Record the content of discussions—when I had discussions with the nurse colleagues, I did not tape-record the content of discussions every time. There were times I just took simple notes as I did not expect that this change process would be written into a formal paper report as it is now. Therefore, some important information could have been missing.  
2. Include the literature review—when I decided to introduce a change at the beginning stage, a review of literature was neglected. In others words, I was following my own intuition and my colleagues’ suggestions to design role plays for my students. This means that the thorough examination of relationship between communicative activities and the development of language skills was neglected.  

At the formation of plans stage:
Students’ voices were neglected at this stage. These students had to accept what had been pre-designed for them. Had I been aware of ESP at the time, students’ opinions would have been included. Theoretically, nursing English courses are specialised courses of nursing, and the specialisation is for its learners to be able to acquire language knowledge which is used in the nursing field (Lee, 1998). Such the curses are a kind of ESP, which is based primarily on the notion of learner-centred philosophy (Belcher, 2004, 2009; Hutchinson & Waters, 1987; Johns & Price-Machado, 2001; Shi, 2009). Thus, the learner must be closely involved in the process of course deign (e.g. establishing the learning goals, choosing the learning methods catering for his or her needs, etc.). In my intuitive change process, students were not involved in the discussion of how the course is going to be delivered and why such the delivery is necessary. If a clear explanation had been provided, it could have been possible that those students’ perspectives might be different.   

At the action stage:
A critical friend group in which dialogue, questions and suggestions are encouraged to build a culture of reflective teaching could have been formed. I was working largely on my own. This means that I had no friend or partner to be able to give advice or work with whenever I was unsure how to meet students’ needs or expectations. A critical friend, according to Kember et al. (1997, p. 464), is ‘an agent for teacher development’. Handal (1999) indicates that at the institutional level, if a department pay particular attention to its quality of teaching, critical friends can be invited to give suggestions for teaching improvement. As to the individual level, I believe that critical friends can also be instructive by evaluating my teaching methods, observing my courses and looking at my teaching curriculum. There were times I had a feeling that I was teaching in the darkness particularly when I saw students struggling with writing sentences in English. I was not sure whether I was right or wrong for adopting the role play element or whether I was pushing them too hard. Critical friend are particularly needed to provide informative responses to what they have thought about and whether the effort has been appropriate.  

At the evaluation stage:
1.  Interview students—an interview should have been designed. According to Cohen et al. (2007), it is able to obtain information in greater depth than any other methods of data collection about the person’s attitudes and experiences. As it provides access to a person’s head (Fontana & Frey, 2003; Punch, 2006). Some students’ responses in the evaluation form do not provide sufficient information, for instance, ‘I don’t like it’, ‘it is too difficult for me’. It remains unknown which parts of role plays were too difficult or why students did not like it. Therefore, to include an interview is necessary as it provides an opportunity for me to further explore students’ perspectives and for students to answer in their words and in a depth that that deals with the context issue. 
2.  Inform students of the planned inquiry beforehand—students did not know that they were participating in the inquiry process. From an ethical concern, students had the right to be informed and decided whether they wanted to be involved in the planned inquiry. This part could have been done more ethically. 

At the follow-up stage:
1. Formulate amended plans—although, for some students, the role-play component was particularly difficult and caused considerable stress, I did not further ask them the reason for this. There was no amended plan to make the activity more instructive. And this can definitely be improved.  
2. Continue the change process—the change process ended after the evaluation stage although students liked it. In fact, more challenging communicative activities (e.g. debate, therapeutic communication, information gap tasks, etc.) could have been designed for students to further enhance their listening and speaking skills. The fact that students had a positive attitude towards role plays could be a start and a legitimate force prompting the change of the shape of ESP course structures in nursing colleges/universities.       

6. Conclusions 
This study presents the retrospective reflection of learning from engaging in the action inquiry which was conducted in 2010. As it is difficult to observe one’s reflection, I decided to write up the inquiry process undertaken and then ponder what I have learned from such the process. After examining my actions and thoughts at each stage, I realise that the whole retrospective reflection process is valuable experience as it assists me in thinking about my own teaching practice for future improvement. In fact, I rarely think back what I did in the past in that I concentrate so much on what to do next. Such the process prompts me to ask myself what I did and why I did this in the past. This self-asking and reflecting experience, to some extent, has provided me with an opportunity to become a more thoughtful teacher, to understand my teaching beliefs, and to ultimately improve my teaching practice. After comparing my intuitive process with Lewin’s model of action research, I realise that some parts of my action inquiry are flawed in the above-mentioned area and could have been done in a more systematic and thoughtful way. These shortcomings have the potential to bring about improvements for my future teaching and researching career.  




References
Adelman, C. (1993). Kurt Lewin and the Origins of Action Research. Educational Action Research, 1(1), 7-24.  
Belcher, D., 2004. Trends in Teaching English for Specific Purposes. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics, 165-186. 
Belcher, D., 2009. What ESP Is and Can Be: An Introduction. In: D. Belcher, ed., English for Specific Purposes in Theory and Practice. U.S.A: The University of Michigan Press, 2009, pp. 1-21. 
Bosher, S., & Smalkoski, K. (2002). From Needs Analysis to Curriculum Development: Designing a Course in Health-care Communication for Immigrant Students in the USA. English for Specific Purposes, 21, 59-79.
Brevig, L. (2006). Engaging in Retrospective Reflection. The Reading Teacher, 59(6), 522-530. 
Bureau of Employment and Vocational Training, (2015). Statistics of Foreign Workers [online]. Executive Yuan. Available at: http://iff.immigration.gov.tw/public/Attachment/552913401819.xls [Accessed 26th June 2015].
Cohen, L., Manion, L., & Morison, K. (2007). Research Methods in Education. London: Routledge, (Chapter 16, p. 349-382). 
Elliott, J. (1991). Action Research for Educational Change. Buckingham: Open University Press, (Chapter 6, p. 69-91). 
Executive Yuan. (2006). Satisfaction Survey of Hospitals Creating an English-Friendly Living Environment in Taiwan [online]. Executive Yuan. Available at: http://www.rdec.gov.tw/public/Data/94713581371.htm [Accessed 6th Jan 2010].
Fontana, A., & Frey, J. H. (2003). The Interview: From Structured Questions to Negotiated Text. In N. K. Denzin, & Y. S. Lincoln (Eds.), Collecting and Interpreting Qualitative Material (pp. 61-107). London: SAGE.
Hamilton, M. L., & Pinnegar, S. (1998). The Value and Promise of Self-study. In M. L. Hamilton (Ed.), Reconceptualising Teaching Practice (pp. 235–246). London: Falmer Press.  
Handal, G. (1999). Consultation Using Critical Friends. New Directions for teaching and Learning, Fall, 59-70. 
Hart, A. W., Sorensen, N. B., & Naylor, K. (1992). Learning to Lead: Reflective Practice in Preservice Education. In F. Wendel (Ed.), Leadership in the Profession (pp. 5-22). University Park, PA: University Council for Educational Administration. 
Hoekje, B. J. (2007). Medical Discourse and ESP Courses for International Medical Graduates (IMGs). English for Specific Purposes, 26, 327-343. 
Hutchinson, T., and Waters, A., 1987. English for Specific Purposes. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.
Johns, A., and Price-Machado, D., 2001. English for specific purposes (ESP):
 Tailoring Courses to Student Needs—and to the Outside World. In: M. Celce-
 Murcia, ed., Teaching English as a Second or Foreign Language. Boston: Heinle & 
Heinle, 2001, pp. 43-54.  
Kao, M.-H., Chen, C.-H., Chang, M.-H., & Huang, C.-H. (2007). A Project to Promote English Conversation Ability among Delivery Room Nurses. Chang Gung Nursing, 4, 561-570. 
Kember, D., Ha, T.-S., Lam, B.-H., Lee, A., NG, S., Yan, L., Yum, C.-K. (1997) The diverse role of the critical friend in supporting educational action research projects, Educational Action Research, 5 (3), 463-481. 
Kemmis, S. (1980). ‘Action Research in Retrospect and Prospect’, mimeo presented at the Annual General Meeting of the Australian Association for Research in Education, Sydney, November 1980. 
Knowles, M. (1973). The Adult Learner: A Neglected Species. Houston: Gulf Publishing Company, (Chapter 3, p. 29-49). 
Kornell, N., & Bjork, R. A. (2007). The Promise and Perils of Self-regulated Study. Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 14(2), 219-224. 
Lee, C. Y., 1998. English for Nursing Purposes: A Needs Assessment for Professional- Oriented Curriculum Design. Academic Journal of Kang-Ning, 1(1), 55-71.
Littlewood, W. (2000). Do Asian Students Really Want to Listen and Obey? ELT Journal, 54 (1), 31-36.
Loughran, J. J. (1996). Developing Reflective Practice: Learning about Teaching and Learning through Modelling. London: The Falmer Press, (Chapter 8, p.107-119). 
Lu, C.-H., Wu, C.-F., Lee, H.-L., & Yu, W.-P. (2009). Improving the English Ability of the Nursing Staff in an Outpatient Department. Tzu Chi Nursing Journal, 8 (6), 87-96.  
Mascolo, M. F. (2009). Beyond Student-centred and teacher-centred pedagogy: Teaching and learning as guided participation. Pedagogy and the Human Science, 1 (1), 3-27. 
Mena-Marcos, J. J., & Tillema, H. (2006). Studying Studies on Teacher Reﬂection and Action: An Appraisal of Research Contributions. Educational Research Review, 1, 112-132.
McNiff, J., & Whitehead, J. (2005). Action Research for Teachers: A Practical Guide. London: David Fulton, (Chapter 1, p. 6-25). 
Munby, H. & Russell, T. (1992). Frames of Reflection: An Introduction. In T. Russell, & H. Munby (Eds.), Teachers and Teaching: From Classroom to Reflection (pp. 1-8). London: Falmer Press. 
Nailon, R. E. (2007). The Assessment and Documentation of Language and Communication Needs in Healthcare Systems: Current Practices and Future Directions for Coordinating Safe, Patient-centred Care. Nursing Outlook, 55, 311-317. 
National Union of Nurses Association. (2006). The law of nursing practice.〔online〕. The national union of Nurses Association. Available at: http://www.nurse.org.tw〔Accessed 20th June 2009〕.
National Union of Nurses’ Associations. (2008). The Law of Nursing Practice [online]. The National Union of Nurses’ Associations. Available at: http://www.nurse.org.tw [Accessed 20th June 2009].
Pine, G. J. (2009). Teacher Action Research: Building Knowledge Democracies. California: SAGE, (Chapter 6-9, p. 109-210)  
Punch, K. F. (2006). Introduction to Research Methods in Education. London: SAGE, (Chapter 8, p.143-169)
Richards, J. C. (2015). The Changing Face of Language Learning: Learning beyond the Classroom. RELC Journal, 46(1), 5-22. 
Schön, D. A. (1983). The Reflective Practitioner. New York: Basic Books. P.??(以外借)
Shi, L., 2009. English for Medical Purposes. In: D. Belcher, ed., English for Specific Purposes in Theory and Practice. U.S.A: The University of Michigan Press, 2009, pp. 205-229.  
Somekh, B. (2006). Action Research: A Methodology for Change and Development. Berkshire: Open University Press, (Chapter 3, 62-88). 
Taiwan College of Healthcare Executive. (2004). Research Activities [online]. Taiwan College of Healthcare Executive. Available at: http://www.tche.org.tw/UI/H/H10002.aspx [Accessed 14th Jan 2011]. 
Van Manen, M. (1977). Linking Ways of Knowing to Ways of being Practical. Curriculum Inquiry, 6(3), 205–228.
Williams, R. (1983). Keywords: A Vocabulary of Culture and Society. New York: Oxford University Press, (Chapter 5, p. 110-131).
Zeichner, K. M., & Liston, D. P. (2014). Reflective Teaching: An Introduction. Oxon: Routledge, (Chapter 1&2, p. 1-24). 




