 The Influence of Community Experience on ESP Courses for Nursing Professionals 
Nurses’ position within the nursing community leads for them to a focus on the provision of quality nursing care and the building of the nurse-patient relationship. 
Such connection has an impact on nurses’ perceptions of ESP courses. They develop certain beliefs as to how ESP courses should be structured and delivered.  
Regarding ESP courses designed for nurses who have resided in hospitals, course designers need to consider their community experience. Nurses are more likely to appreciate the value of such courses and enjoy learning.


Abstract
A nursing community can be described as a discourse community or a Community of Practice (CoP), but compared to the former, the latter places more emphasis on the influence the community exerts on its group members’ worldviews, perspectives and beliefs. The aim of this research is to investigate how this plays out for nurses, and how nurses’ experience of being members within a nursing community influences their perspectives on English for Specific Purposes (ESP) courses. This is achieved by conducting a qualitative case study in a hospital in Taiwan in which many foreign patients seek medical treatment and in which English is highly valued. Nine Taiwanese nursing professionals working in various nursing units in the hospital participated in the study. Two research methods: interview and observation were chosen as the primary methods of data collection. The results demonstrated that the nurses’ connection with the nursing community lead for them to a focus in their working lives on (1) the building of the nurse-patient relationship, (2) the provision of quality nursing care, (3) negative caring experiences and (4) the realisation of professional identity. This, to a large extent, determined their perceptions of ESP courses. They developed certain beliefs as to how the ESP courses should be structured and delivered.  

Key words
English for Specific Purposes, discourse community, Community of Practice, nursing








1. Introduction
According to Gobbi (2009, p.73), community in its Latin root means “sameness”, “common or shared by many”, “together”, and “performing services”. A community (e.g. a work community, a religious community, a hobby community, etc.), for many researchers and theorists (e.g. Bizzell, 1992; Flowerdew, 2000; Hyland, 2009; Lave & Wenger, 1991; Little et al., 2003; Wenger, 1998), influences its group members’ worldviews, perspectives and beliefs. A group of nursing professionals forms two (or more) kinds of community, one of which is a discourse community, the other of which is a Community of Practice (CoP). It is a discourse community because, according to Bizzell (1992), a discourse community is a group of people who share particular practices on language use. Such practices influence the form of interaction within the group and with the outsiders of the group. Those involved in the healthcare profession share certain ideas about diseases and treatments whose meanings are assumed and do not require explanation in a discussion made of a group of healthcare professionals in the hospital context. They demonstrate their competence, specialisation and knowledge through expert discourses (Little et al., 2003). The key to a discourse community lies in the discourse. A community forms and is bound together mainly because of its language use although some other factors (e.g. profession, interests, etc.) might be involved (Pogner, 2003, 2005). The aim of a discourse community, Pogner has noted, is to solve problems and to develop knowledge through some forms of texts. Discourse is thus the vital element that upholds the community. It solidifies the community and gives values for the existence of the community.  

A nursing community, on the other hand, is also a kind of a CoP (Lave & Wenger, 1991; Wenger, 1998). It comes into being and binds together primarily through profession, learning, engagement and participation (Wenger, 1998). Lave and Wenger (1991) coined the term, CoP, in the earlier work: Situated Learning: Legitimate Peripheral Participation. Afterwards, Wenger provided detailed explanations of a CoP—it is an entity that includes three dimensions: (1) mutual engagement, (2) joint enterprise and (3) shared repertoire. What is central to a CoP is that individuals learn from participating and engaging in social practice in the social world. In other words, learning is not formal, as when confined to a classroom setting at school. Individuals learn how to function properly and acceptably in the target setting from peripheral participation towards full participation. They learn how to talk and what to say with people inside or outside the community, and how to use the shared resources in the community. Thus, they develop identities as full members related to the community. A CoP is produced and upheld through the way that like-minded people having similar interests and learning through participation, jointly construct their goal(s). The concept of CoP has been applied to the healthcare field (Andrew et al., 2008; Lathlean & Myall, 2009; May, 2009). And for Wenger (2009) also, the healthcare community is a CoP. The CoP gives a legitimate status to the community of being able to address healthcare issues and the ability to learn how to care for patients for optimal outcomes. As he (p. vii) says,   
“[E]veryone knows that the actual practice cannot be fully learned in the classroom. Health and social care delivery remains a practice located in relationships, in interactions and in the improvisation inherent in situated intelligence”.

A community, whether a discourse community or a CoP, according to Bizzell (1992) and Wenger (1998), influences its members’ ways of looking at the world. If a community exerts influence on its group members’ worldviews, perspectives and beliefs, it is reasonable to suspect that a nurse’s experience of membership within the nursing community might determine the way he or she constructs his or her position on English for Specific Purposes (ESP) courses if such courses were ever provided. Very few published studies in the ESP field explore this topic. Therefore, the purpose of this paper is to explore how nurses’ experience of membership within the nursing community influences their views of the ESP courses they had during their college/university years.

2. Literature review
2.1 The formation of identity related to the community  
According to Hyland (2009, 2010, 2011) and Wenger (1998), the formation of identity involves identification, a process through which identity is developed and constructed by creating connections to the identities of community members. Language, according to Hyland, is a powerful tool for proclaiming one’s connection with certain communities. Speaking or writing in particular ways announces one’s membership of the community, as Lave (1996, p. 157) said, “becoming kinds of persons”. Identity, according to Hyland, is constructed by using the rhetorical choices that the community makes use of. People gain credibility and approval as being the members of a community by aligning their language use with those of the community members. In other words, people position themselves and are positioned in the communities by employing the discourse favoured by the community. Language, Hyland and Tse (2012) emphasise, has the power of representing people in particular ways because the thing we say or write somehow shows who we are and demonstrates the image we wish to establish to others in interaction. Community discourse is the means that the community members use to produce knowledge, to solve problems, to train new comers and to distinguish others. Distinct from the language-based formation of identity proposed by Hyland (2009, 2010, 2011), Wenger (1998) brings a quite different perspective to how identity is formed. He indicates that identity is constructed through both participation and reification. Membership of the particular community forms its members’ identity. This is not to imply that once people connect themselves with the community they wish to enter and once they obtain the reified markers of being members of the community, their identity simply forms. The generation of identity involves some forms of competence. When people claim themselves full members of the community, they are in a territory which appears familiar to them. They have the ability to deal with things happening in and around them; they understand how to interact with people; they make use of resources the members in the same community use to communicate and to perform activities. In other words, they experience their competence and are seen as being competent in the eyes of the members belonging to the same community by participating in the activities in relation to the community. Wenger’s observation is supported by Pratt et al. (2006) and Öhlén and Segesten (1998), who were interested in the exploration of the construction of professional identity. In their research, they studied how the identity of healthcare professionals formed. The results show that competence was one of the important factors. When the healthcare professionals developed the ability and competence to deal with their work and responsibilities, they understood better their identities as doctors and nurses, together with the territory of healthcare. 

2.2 Impact of community on its group members 
A community, whether a discourse community or a CoP, influences its group members’ worldviews, perspectives and beliefs. Wenger (1998) argues that one’s investment in a community influences his or her way of looking at the world. Being a member of the community leads to a focus on certain things. Although not all members in the community look at things in the same way, there is a tendency for them to value particular things, make similar choices and have certain interpretations. Similarly, Bizzell (1992) remarks that a community, to a significant extent, affects its member’s worldviews. She questions Swales' (1990) neglect of the influence of a discourse community on its group members, critical of his focus mainly on how the community uses texts to achieve its communicative purposes and how to identify and analyse the discourse structure underlying these texts. For Bizzell, participating in a discourse community inevitably involves some kinds of changes of thinking, especially when great passion has been felt. An “inbuilt dynamic” (p. 227) forms and shapes one’s mind and views of the world in the process of engaging oneself in activities in relation to the community. It is possible that the person is unaware of such changes so concentrated is he or she on fitting into the target community. Little et al. (2003) also posit that a community has considerable influence on people’s lives. They indicate that human beings are social and societal creatures; therefore, the feeling of belonging is important. Most of mankind wants to belong to some kind of community (e.g. work community, hobby community, etc.) for various reasons. When people connect themselves with a community, they feel secure and privileged in that the community provides a feeling of belonging. However, a certain degree of conformity is required if one wants to be accepted as a group member of a community. Communities affect what members should say and what they will think. Members, consciously or unconsciously, conform to the norms of their community. As a consequence, what is valued by the community, to some extent, becomes the appreciated values of its members. Pogner (2005) indicates the members of a community build up the norms and conventions of the community. However, at the same time, in the opposite direction, such norms and conventions also influence the way in which the members see problems and come up with solutions. In other words, the norms and conventions of the community somehow impose constraints on the worldviews of its members.  

Another explanation explaining how one’s beliefs and thinking are changed focuses on experience. Experience, according to Williams (1983), is a kind of knowledge accumulated from events experienced and reflected on, or a kind of consciousness resulting from events in which an individual has been involved. Little et al. (2003) argue that any experience, no matter what type, whether knowledge or consciousness as espoused by Williams, is material which people can draw on in making sense of the world, and a template upon which people’s personal values and subjective feelings are based. Experience, therefore, is not a truth waiting to be discovered. Rather, it is something which needs to be interpreted (Scott, 1991). For Little et al. (2003), human beings are in an environment full of events. They experience these events by being involved with or observing them. Usually, these events will not develop as personal cognitive experiences unless people are aware of them happening around them. It is this developed and remembered experience which constitutes and influences the background of people’s thoughts, perspectives and beliefs. In Little et al.’s (2002) study, people’s experience related to the healthcare community was explored. The results demonstrated that different groups of people (e.g. patients, doctors, administrative personnel, etc.) constructed their experience with the community differently, and it is these remembered experiences which influenced their thinking, beliefs and lives.   

After reviewing the arguments above, a conclusion can be drawn here—a community is able to influence its group members’ worldviews, perspectives and beliefs. If a community does exert influences on its group members, it is reasonable to suspect that nurses’ experience of membership within the nursing community might determine the ways in which they construct their positions on ESP courses. Nurses, who have been residents in hospitals and have been members of nursing communities for some years, might have different perspectives on ESP courses as a result of their experience of their nursing community. Are their perspectives of ESP courses influenced by their involvement in their nursing community? Do they tend to look at things in a similar way? If yes, how are they similar? These are all questions intended to be answered by the current research.
 
3. Methodology
Of the many possible methodological approaches available, a qualitative case study was chosen as the more suitable one for this study, which is centred on data from nine Taiwanese nursing professionals working in various nursing units in a large-scale hospital in Taiwan in which many foreign patients seek medical services and in which English is highly valued. Interview and observation were chosen as the primary data generation methods, as entering the participants’ worlds and seeing the target setting itself—the hospital, and the nurses’ daily routines, interactions, language and conversations—were vital to this study.  

3.1 Observations and interviews
I conducted observations in the surgical ward in the hospital over eight consecutive days in the spring term of 2013. The duration of these observations was from 15th to 22nd of February. The manner I used to conduct the observations is called shadowing (Dudley-Evans & St John, 1998), which means I followed everything one nurse did for work for eight consecutive days (day shift: 0800-1600). During the process of observation, I asked the nurse questions which were related to nursing tasks which were particularly interesting. Usually, I took detailed notes as the activity took place if the nature of the activity allowed. Sometimes, I waited for later until time permitted. The other method adopted was interview. The interviews were carried out from July 2012 to August 2012. They took place in the visiting room in the hospital, and were conducted mainly in Chinese, occasionally in English. The interviews were tape-recorded for verbatim transcription.
 
The inclusion sampling criteria for selecting participants was that they needed to have at least three years' working experience caring for patients in the hospital, as this meant they knew more about the nature of the work and were more suitable as research participants. Nine nurses in total were chosen from the three major departments (i.e. the Specialist Center, the Department of Internal Medicine, and the Department of Surgery). Table 1 provides basic information about the participants. For ethical reasons, pseudonyms are used for the participants’ names.
Table 1 Participant portraits
Name
Position
Working Unit/ Department
Years of working experience
Languages spoken
Pei
lead nurse
ER (Emergency Room)/ specialist center
9 years
1. Mandarin-fluent
2. Hakka-fluent
3. Taiwanese-fluent
4. English-poor
Chia
registered nurse
general surgical ward/ surgical department
3 years
1. Mandarin-fluent 
2. Taiwanese-fluent
3. English-poor
Jin
registered nurse
infection ward/ internal medicine department
11 years

1. Mandarin-fluent
2. Taiwanese-fluent
3. English-poor 
Yi
lead nurse
colon-rectal surgical ward/ surgical department 
10 years
1. Mandarin-fluent 
2. Taiwanese-fluent
3. English-poor  
Hua
associated  head nurse
infection ward / internal medicine department
12 years
1. Mandarin-fluent 
2. Taiwanese-fluent
3. English-poor  
Cho
registered nurse
nephrological ward/ internal medicine department 
3 years
1. Mandarin-fluent 
2. Taiwanese-fluent
3. English-poor  
Yek
registered nurse
ER / specialist center
10 years
1. Mandarin-fluent
2. Taiwanese-fluent
3. Hakka-fair
4. English-fair
Ling
associated head nurse
general surgical ward / surgical department
12 years
1. Mandarin-fluent
2. Taiwanese-fluent
3. English-fair
Chung
registered nurse
OR (Operation Room) / specialist center
10 years
1. Mandarin-fluent
2. Taiwanese-fluent
3. English-poor

3.2 Data analysis
This research adopted the data analysis process proposed by Chang (2010). She provides a comprehensive model of qualitative data analysis, which includes five steps: (1) transcribing, (2) conceptualising, (3) propositionalising, (4) graphing and (5) theorising. What is emphasised in this model is data transformation. The researcher starts with transcribing the data and coding the data, then identifying the themes and trends, then moving to test the themes and trends developed, and then delineating the deep structure so the data can be integrated into the structure. The results obtained for each step are different. The difference is not only in terms of quantity, but in quality also. The first step of data analysis in this study, as shown in Figure 1, begins from transcribing. The second step involves conceptualising. This is to attach concepts to the data collected. This step is similar to Chen’s (2002, p. 395) “categorisation”, which means the process of looking for recurring phenomena in the data set and thinking of concepts that are able to explain such phenomena. The third step concerns propositionalising. The goal of this stage is to develop propositions, the purpose of which is to “formalise and systematise the researcher’s thinking into a coherent set of explanations” (Miles & Huberman, 1994, p. 75). The fourth step is to design matrices or networks to test out the propositions developed to see whether these propositions are appropriate in describing the research findings. The last step is to generate new theories, or to revise or to support existing theories, based on what is found from the data.

Figure 1 Chang’s model of qualitative analysis
 



(Chang, 2010, p.98)
        
4. Community experience
The participants’ community experience emerging from the data set can be divided into four areas: (1) the nurse-patient relationship, (2) patient-centred care, (3) negative caring experiences due to the language barrier and (4) realisation of professional identity. When asked whether English is important for them, all participants in the interviews agreed on the importance of English. Although English is a foreign language in Taiwan, the hospital at which they worked is a large-scale hospital in which many foreign patients seek medical services and in which English is highly valued. Therefore, nurses working in the hospital have many opportunities to care for foreign patients. And nurses’ community experience, to a significant degree, determines the ways they view the ESP courses they had during their college/university years. For the first two areas of experience, the nurse-patient relationship and patient-centred care, when the nurses need to care for foreign patients, listening and speaking competence in English is an important tool in social interaction, a process upon which a good nurse-patient relationship can be built and through which proper nursing care can be delivered. The participants indicated that without listening and speaking competence in English, it is difficult to build a good nurse-patient relationship with patients and quality nursing care cannot be provided because the nurses do not know what the patients need. The latter two areas, the nurses’ negative caring experiences and the realisation of professional identity, lead to contrary emotions for them about ESP courses. The reason for this is that ESP courses facilitate nurses' realisation of their professional identity and help create a feeling of belonging in the nursing community. However, during the process of caring for those whose language backgrounds are different from theirs, their language difficulties become obvious, which leaves them with a feeling of dissatisfaction for the ESP courses they have had to take.
 
4.1 Nurse-patient relationship
According to Lin (2008), the nurse-patient relationship is a special type of interpersonal relation generated between nurses and patients. Unlike general interactions among people or close friendships among friends, the nurse-patient relationship has a therapeutic effect. Peplau (1992) indicates that in such a relationship, the nurse is playing the role of being an expert who has profound knowledge at his or her disposal. Equipped with this knowledge, the nurse is able to meet his or her patient’s needs for care. This unique therapeutic value differentiates the nurse-patient relationship from other kinds of relationships among general people. The nurse-patient relationship, according to Gastmans (1998), is built in communication. And this kind of communication, Lin (2008) notes, is not for social purposes. Rather, it is goal-oriented, the goal of realising nursing practice. Therefore, the way that nurses talk to their patients is different from the way they talk to their friends or families. The nurses’ speech, Lin argues, has therapeutic effects and promotes patients’ well-being. The followings are two excerpts which talk about the importance of the nurse-patient relationship in the participants’ accounts.   

       I think the building of the nurse-patient relationship with patients is the most important thing…If your communication skills are good, you can give your patients an impression, that is, you are very professional and you have ability and knowledge to take care of them. And then they will also tell you more about their situation and discomfort...And I think this is very important because nursing care that you provide to your patients is based on your patient’s condition. If your nursing care promotes patients’ well-being, that means you are a professional nurse…I think this is important, no one wants to be seen as an incompetent nurse in our nursing group (Participant Pei) 
    
You know, medical malpractice dispute is very common. The patients in the ER always think, ‘I am the most serious one and get the doctor to me as soon as possible’. They would not care that there are many patients whose medical conditions are much worse and need emergency surgeries as well. How to protect ourselves in such an environment full of pressure of being sued? I think the most important thing to do is to build the good nurse-patient with your patients (Participant Yek) 

The first excerpt has two functions here. First, it shows that building up the nurse-patient relationship is the most important because after such a relationship is established, patients will trust nurses and express their needs and discomfort. And the nurses are provided with opportunities to respond to patients’ demands and to use nursing knowledge and interventions to fulfil their needs and to promote their well-being. Second, it shows the participant’s strong sense of identity as being a nurse. This finding in fact relates to Wenger’s (1998) arguments that identity is a display of competence related to the community with which individuals connect themselves. They are considered to be competent as having ability to deal with things happening around or to them, to use proper language when talking to insiders or outsiders of the community and to interact with people. For this nurse, professional identity can be performed by showing her competence in oral communication with patients. Having good communication skills facilitates her to build a professional image and to demonstrating her nursing knowledge. In other words, she found a way to be seen as competent (i.e. to have good communication skills). Having such competence is particularly important for her because she wants to be regarded as a professional and knowledgeable nurse in the eyes of others.    

In the second excerpt, the participant mentioned a common situation happening in the hospital context in Taiwan nowadays, that is, medical malpractice disputes (Tsai, 2005; Tsen, 2007). One of the common reasons for this, according to Lee and Tsen (2010), is due to bad communication. They indicate that in the hospital context, it is common to see that healthcare professionals (e.g. nurses, doctors, technicians, etc.) do not reply to patients’ requirements or inquiries immediately due to their busy schedules or heavy workloads. In this situation, it is easy for patients to believe that they do not receive sufficient respect and attention. This might cause patients’ dissatisfaction and anger, which often lead to medical malpractice disputes. The nurse in the interview noted that building the nurse-patient relationship through good communication with patients is an effective way to avoid this problem. She believed that such a relationship is the basis upon which trust is built up and developed.  

4.2 Patient-centred care 
What kind of nursing care can be regarded as proper nursing care? Patient-centred care, the tenet of the hospital, is an important finding related to this question. According to Kuo et al. (2012), patient-centred care is a concept which emphasises the inter-subjectivity of both patients and nurses. The centrality of such care is the management of diseases. Patients and nurses are equally important in the caring process because patients are the experts of their bodies and lives, and nurses are the experts in providing professional nursing skills and knowledge to help patients recover their health. From the consideration of disease management, the two parties have to work in a close and truthful relationship and build an inter-subjective partnership in the hope of coming up with the most needful, appropriate and feasible healthcare plans. Nailon (2007) remarks that patient-centred care can be achieved in the hospital where “providers’ understanding and effective response will be individualised according to cultural and linguistic needs and preferences brought by patients” (p. 312). What this means is that nursing care offered by nurses should always be responsive to patients’ needs and preferences. Every patient is a unique and independent individual who has his or her own ideas of diseases and of health. Thus, an important thing nurses have to do is to actively involve patients in the nursing decision-making process, to respect their beliefs, values and culture and to discover their needs, in order to achieve the optimal outcomes of disease management (Foy & Timmins, 2004). The following is an excerpt from a nurse working in the surgical ward. She emphasised the importance of providing patient-centred care.  
One thing impressed me very much is that I’ve been attacked by a patient with the diagnosis of diabetes mellitus (DM). I remember that his blood sugar was very high, and this eventually made one of his legs amputated. And I was his primary nurse, and of course I was responsible to give clinical instructions of how to control blood sugar to him. I remember I told him a hundred times that “You can’t eat food that contains too much sugar” and that “Except DM diet provided by the hospital, you can’t eat anything”. One day, I saw him eating something like chocolate bar. I was so angry and said very loudly to him, “How many times I’ve told you?! Your blood sugar is too high and you can’t eat any sweets”. The patient suddenly took his crutch and hit me with the crutch. I was so angry and shouted to him back: “How dare you hit me!”…You know, I think I was too young at the time, and I finally realised that eating sweets is the happiest thing for the patient. And now I know that the care that I provided to the patient was not…um…suitable. I should have involved the patient in the process of making nursing plans. To discuss with him in order to find out the most suitable and feasible care for him and to place him in the centre of the nursing care are the most important things I’ve learned (Participant Chia)
This example shows how important it is for nurses to provide patient-centred care to patients. From the standpoint of being an expert, the nurse established healthcare plans, and believed that what she had done was good for her patient. However, what she ignored was to listen to the patient. What did the patient want? Why did the patient still want to eat sweets in such the situation? What is the meaning of eating sweets to the patient? According to Kuo et al. (2012), nurses often ignore the active role that patients are acting. In fact, patients are experts of their lives and bodies. If nurses make healthcare plans without the concern of inter-subjectivity, it is likely that patients will think that the plans are unfeasible to follow. This causes their diseases to become even worse, and finally their trust in nurses is destroyed. Chia’s case is a good example making the importance of providing proper nursing care clear. Looking back on this incident which happened years ago, Chia now realises the central role played by the patient, and understands the possible consequence of not providing proper care. 

In fact, providing patient-centred care to nurses whom I interviewed is particularly important. This term appeared many times in the accounts of the participants. Being involved in the community dedicated to providing quality nursing care to and improving the well-being of patients, the nurses are influenced profoundly by the community. In other words, the values of the nursing community, to some extent, become the appreciated values of the nurses. Both the community and the nurses have the same goal and work hard towards this goal. This finding suggests that providing quality nursing care is not simply a stated goal of the community. Rather, it creates the relations among nurses and between the nursing community and the nurses.

4.3 Negative caring experience due to the language barrier
Eight out of the nine participants in this study have some experiences of caring for foreign patients. Six of them expressed negative caring experiences. The following data show that one participant in the surgical ward recalled one instance in which she had suffered from language difficulties during the process of caring for a foreign patient.

Another patient impressed me very much was a Mexican patient with the diagnosis of paralysis disorder. His consciousness was very clear. I had cared for him for almost one year. During the process, I needed to speak English to him. For me, to understand him was not that difficult since he spoke very clearly and slowly. When his family came, I needed to speak English to them as well. In the end, his family had a misunderstanding with our nursing team, especially with me because I was the patient’s primary nurse. They thought we didn’t care for their brother [the patient] properly...I knew one of the main reasons was the communication problem. I didn’t explain clearly enough what I had done to the patient and his families because my speaking in English was poor…Actually, I could say I did everything I could to care for that patient (Participant Chia) 

From the remembered experience of being misunderstood, Chia realised how important English was to her job. According to her descriptions, she has done what a nurse needs to do—to provide proper care to her patients; however, because of her deficient English ability, at the end her patient’s family had a misunderstanding with her. This research finding relates to Hoekje’s (2007) observation that language problems interfere with the performance of international healthcare professionals. In her research paper, she gave an example of how a Filipino doctor working in a U.S. hospital was charged with perjury because of language problems. Although Chia’s case is not the same as the one in Hoekje’s research, the message brought by these two cases is similar, that is, English deficiency can bring healthcare professionals into an adverse situation.  

The nurse participants believed that traditional teaching methods (i.e. Grammar Translation Method and the Audiolingual method) adopted by their ESP teachers during the college/university years were the main reasons causing their difficulties in communicating with foreign patients. The following data show that the nurse participants in the interview had a negative attitude towards the traditional teaching methods. Looking back as nurses having abundant clinical experience in the hospital context, those nurses believed that these traditional teaching methods should be replaced. There were six participants expressing their dissatisfaction with the teaching methods. For them, these ESP courses brought them boring and unhappy learning experiences. Armed with the nurses’ beliefs is the conviction that the learning methods did not prepare them to confidently use English in their interaction with foreign patients. A nurse from the surgical ward noted,
   
She [the ESP teacher] kept asking us to read and to memorise vocabulary…I remember she also spent a lot time teaching us grammar. But to be honest, from my own experience as a nurse, what I need is proficient listening and speaking competence in English to communicate with foreign patients, and this is surely not fulfilled (Participant Yi)

Nurses who had the traditional learning methods in their college/university years expressed their hope of learning English through vivid communicative activities in which they could actively practise speaking and listening in English and accumulate more realistic English using experience. They believed that this way of learning English can match up with the manner of using English in the hospital context. As one of them indicated, 

When you care for foreign patients, you know, you need to respond to their questions immediately…Two important skills involved in oral communication are listening and speaking…When you are interacting with your patients, you can’t take much time to think. I mean, you need to respond to your patients immediately... I wish I could have such training. If so, how I had learned in the class could match how I use English in the workplace now (Participant Ling) 

4.4 Realisation of professional identity
Although being unfulfilling in some aspects, the ESP courses, to some extend, remained useful to nurses as the courses realised the nurses’ professional identity. It was true that they did not like the courses as their needs in English were not satisfied; however, they still believed that they had learned something beneficial to their job from these courses, that is, medical terminologies in English. Nurses’ knowledge in medical terminologies was learned from their ESP courses. For them, the content of the learning materials matches up with realistic English use in the context of shifting reports. And this made the nurses appreciate the value of the courses. 

Medical terminologies in English are mainly used in the context of shifting reports. Table 2 shows an example of typical communication in shifting report among the nurses as noted down in my field notes. The parts shadowed in grey and enclosed with double quotation marks are expressed in English while the rest are spoken in Chinese. Clearly, it shows that the nurses used English whenever they mentioned medical terminologies. 

Table 2 Typical communication among nurses in the shifting report 
Time/Place
Event/Interaction
Content
Feb, 18 /
the nurses’ station  
shifting reports/
nurse-nurse
The patient was transferred to our ward last night because of “abdominal pain” and dizzy. She has been on “NPO” (nulla per os) since last night and will have the “gastroscopy examination” today. Her “EKG” (electrocardiogram) test shows “atrial flutter” and the “KUB” test (kidney, ureter, and bladder) shows “normal”. Check “finger” four times a day. Her “AC” (ante cibum) test was 116 this morning and body weight is 47kg. Check “vital signs” “Tid” (ter in die) and record “input” and “output” “OD” (quaque die). An “IC” (intravenous catheter) with a lock is on her left hand. No “IV” (intravenous) is prescribed at the moment. Remember to follow her “TSH” (thyroid stimulating hormone) result in your shift. In addition, her “sodium” is 119 - 120.           

An interesting issue to be discussed here regards the reason why the nurses used technical English rather than Chinese to indicate medical terminologies. Based on the nurses’ accounts, two reasons were identified. Firstly, it is a tacit understanding among nursing professionals. According to them, the wards and the nurses’ station were public areas in which various people, including patients, visitors and cleaners, walked around. Patients’ private information might be revealed in the process of shifting reports. Therefore, they learned from their seniors, when they were novices, to use English to indicate medical terminologies, e.g. the medical interventions, examinations and treatments, etc., and believed that there are fewer opportunities of revealing the private information of patients by doing so. The second reason is related to the identity issue. Using English to indicate medical terminologies made the nurses feel professional and sound like members of the nursing community. Certainly, using Chinese to indicate technical words, according to the nurses, is acceptable; however, the interview data and my field notes indicated that no nurse did this. As a nurse said,

Because everyone does so, I don’t want to be the one excluded. In addition, speaking English makes me feel professional…feel like being a professional nurse (Participant Yi)

Such tacit understanding and identity, according to the nurse participants, were gradually developed after they entered the nursing community. They felt that their seniors sounded professional when they were speaking English; therefore, they tried hard to learn from the seniors the proper way of speaking in the hospital in the hope of sounding like professional nurses in the eyes of others. This finding in fact corresponds to Hyland’s (2009, 2010, 2011) observation. By using rhetorical resources that their communities make available, people claim their relationship and connection with the groups to define who they are in relation to others. In the hospital context, new comers in the medical domain find a legitimate system of language use and then follow the system. They do this in order to fit themselves in with the environment and to position themselves in this discourse community. They follow what others in the same group do in the hope of being the same and being accepted by the others. Such a legitimate pattern of language use, according to the nurses, facilitates them to realise their professional identity and to achieve credibility as insiders of the community. In addition, this finding also indicates how learning takes place through social participation (Lave & Wenger, 1991; Wenger, 1998), and how the shared repertoire (i.e. medical jargon) is used by the nurses in order to negotiate meanings. The nurses in this study entered the nursing community and learned how to interact with the insiders of the community. They learned the proper way of speaking and of doing nursing duties by engaging in nursing and by imitating other experts (i.e. senior nurses) in the community. They employed the shared repertoire to communicate with other members and to engage in nursing in the hope of being recognised as full members (i.e. professional nurses) of the community. This finding is important in that it indicates that the nursing CoP evolves because the nurses wish to develop a professional identity and to fit in with other members in the community. Such a desire to learn and belong is in fact crucial to Wenger’s CoP. 

5. Conclusions
Communities exert influences on their members. An individual’s membership of communities inevitably involves some kinds of changes in his or her thinking and makes him or her focus on certain things which concern him or her most (Bizzell, 1992; Little et al., 2002, 2003; Pogner, 2005; Wenger, 1998). In this study, the nurse participants’ alignment with the nursing community makes them focus on the provision of patient-centred care, the nurse-patient relationship, negative caring experience and professional identities. It is this remembered experience and the commitment to the nursing community that exert a great influence on the participants’ perceptions of how ESP courses should be structured and delivered in order to prepare them to deal with their nursing duties. The participants’ community experience plays a vital role in shaping their views and thoughts, and there is a tendency for the nurses to look at things in quite a similar way. 
 
The influence of nurses’ perspectives on ESP courses could be discussed from two aspects: perceived needs and preferred teaching methods. From the aspect of perceived needs, the nurses’ commitments to nursing made the nurses’ language needs in English become obvious. For example, when asked what their needs in English were, some nurses recalled instances in which they needed to use English as an oral communication tool through which the nurse-patient relationship could be built and through which patient-centred care could be delivered while some nurses stressed the importance and necessity of technical English (i.e. medical terminologies) in the context of shifting reports since it facilitates the nurses to realise their professional identity and to achieve credibility as insiders in the eyes of others in the nursing community. From the aspect of teaching methods, when asked their preferred learning methods, the nurses believed that legitimate English teaching methods are those which employ many listening and speaking activities through which good communication skills in English can be developed in order to carry out their nursing duties. They recounted their frustrated experience in which English deficiency brought them into an adverse situation. From such the frustrated experience, they have developed a negative attitude towards traditional teaching methods. The reason for this is that those methods are not only boring but also fail to prepare the nurses to confidently use English to carry out their duties. 

Nurses’ community experience might be an important and potential element which should deserve considerable attention in the process of ESP course design. From their community experience, nurses develop certain beliefs about how ESP courses should be structured. Therefore, regarding ESP courses designed for nurses who have resided in the hospital or who have some clinical practice experience, ESP courses designers and teachers might need to consider their students’ community experience. Thus, these students are more likely to appreciate the value of courses and enjoy learning.  















References
Andrew, N., Tolson, D., & Ferguson, D. (2008). Building on Wenger: Communities of Practice in Nursing. Nurse Education Today, 246-252. 
Bizzell, P. (1992). Academic Discourse and Critical Consciousness. Pittsburgh: The University of Pittsburgh Press, (Chapter 11).  
Chang, F. (2010). The Five Steps of Qualitative Data Analysis: Climbing up a Ladder of Abstraction. Journal of Elementary Education, 35, 87-120.
Chen, S. (2002). Social Science–Qualitative Research. Taipei: Wunang, (Chapter 19).
Dudley-Evans, T., & St John, M. (1998). Developments in English for Specific Purposes: A Multi-Disciplinary Approach. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, (Chapter 7). 
Flowerdew, J. (2000). Discourse Community, Legitimate Peripheral Participation, and the Nonnative-English-Speaking Scholar. TESOL Quarterly, 34 (1), 127-150. 
Foy, C., & Timmins, F. (2004). Improving Communication in Day Surgery Settings. Nursing Standard, 19 (7), 37-42.
Gastmans, C. (1998). Interpersonal Relations in Nursing: A Philosophical-Ethical Analysis of Work of Hildegard E. Peplau. Journal of Advanced Nursing, 28 (6), 1312-1319. 
Gobbi, M. (2009). Learning Nursing in the Workplace Community: The Generation of Professional Capital. In A. May (Ed.), Communities of Practice in Health and Social Care (pp. 66-83). Sussex: Wiley-Blackwell.
Hoekje, B. J. (2007). Medical Discourse and ESP Courses for International Medical Graduates (IMGs). English for Specific Purposes, 26, 327-343.
Hyland, K. (2009). Teaching and Researching Writing. Harlow: Pearson, (Chapter 1).
Hyland, K. (2010). Community and Individuality: Performing Identity in Applied Linguistics. Written Communication. 27 (2), 159-188.
Hyland, K. (2011). Projecting and Academic Identity in some Reflective Genres. Ibérica, 21, 9-30. 
Hyland, K., & Tse, P. (2012). ‘She Has Received Many Honours’: Identity Construction in Article Bio Statements. Journal of English for Academic Purposes, 11, 155-165.
Kuo, C. C., Chin, C. C., & Chou, F. H. (2012). Reflecting on Nurse-Patient Relationships Using Core Postmodernist Concepts. The Journal of Nursing, 59 (1), 72-76
Lathlean, J., & Myall, M. (2009). Developing Dermatology Outpatient Services through a Community of Practice. In A. May (Ed.), Communities of Practice in Health and Social Care (pp. 36-47). Sussex: Wiley-Blackwell.
Lave, J. (1996). Teaching as Learning, in Practice. Mind, Culture & Activity, 3(3), 149-164.
Lave, J., & Wenger, E. (1991). Situated Learning: Legitimate Peripheral Participation. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, (Chapter 4).
Lee, B. C., & Tsen, P. S. (2010). Clinical and Legal Perspectives on the Medical Disputes. Taipei: New Sharing, (Chapter 2).  
Lin, Y. T. (2008). Therapeutic Discourse: On the Intersubjective Nurse-Patient Relationship. The Journal of Nursing, 55, 14-19. 
Little, M., Jordens, C. F. C., Paul, K., Sayers, E.-J., Cruickshank, J. A., Stegeman, J. et al. (2002). Discourse in Different Voices: Reconciling n = 1 and n = Many. Social Science & Medicine, 55 (7), 1079-1087. 
Little, M., Jordens, C. F. C., & Sayers, E.-J. (2003). Discourse Communities and the Discourse of Experience. Health, 7, 73-86. 
May, A. (2009). Communities of Practice and Learning Health Practice in Developing Countries. In A. May (Ed.), Communities of Practice in Health and Social Care (pp. 83-95). Sussex: Wiley-Blackwell.
Miles, M. B., & Huberman, A. M. (1994). Qualitative Data Analysis: An Expanded Sourcebook. London: Sage Publications, (Chapter 4).  
Nailon, R. E. (2007). The Assessment and Documentation of Language and Communication Needs in Healthcare Systems: Current Practices and Future Directions for Coordinating Safe, Patient-Centred Care. Nursing Outlook, 55, 311-317. 
Öhlén, J., & Segesten, K. (1998). The Professional Identity of the Nurse: Concept Analysis and Development. Journal of Advanced Nursing, 28 (4), 720-727.
Peplau, H. E. (1992). Interpersonal Relations: A Theoretical Framework for Application in Nursing Practice. Nursing Science Quarterly, 5 (1), 13-18. 
Pogner, K. H. (2003). Writing in the Discourse Community of Engineering. Journal of Pragmatics, 35, 855-867. 
Pogner, K, H. (2005). Discourse Communities and Communities of Practice: On the Social Context of Text and Knowledge Production in the Workplace. Paper Presented at the 21st EGOS Colloquium June 30-July 2, Freie Universität Berlin. 
Pratt, M. G., Rockmann, K. W., & Kaufmann, J. B. (2006). Constructing Professional Identity: The Role of Work and Identity Learning Cycles in the Customisation of Identity among Medical Residents. Academy of Management, 49 (2), 235-262.
Scott, J. W. (1991). The Evidence of Experience. Critical Inquiry, 17 (4), 773-797. 
Swales, J. (1990). Genre Analysis: English in Academic and Research Settings. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, (Chapter 2).
Tsai, C. T. (2005). The Exploration of Medical Malpractice Dispute. Taipei: National Library, (Chapter 2). 
Tsen, C. Y. (2007). Medical Malpractice Dispute and Causal Relationship. Taipei: Han Lu Publication, (Chapter 2).   
Wenger, E. (1998). Communities of Practice: Learning, Meaning, and Identity. New York: Cambridge University Press, (Chapter 6). 
Wenger, E. (2009). Foreword. In M. Andrée (Ed.), Communities of Practice in Health and Social Care (pp. vii-ix). Sussex: Wiley-Blackwell.
Williams, R. (1983). Keywords: A Vocabulary of Culture and Society. New York: Oxford University Press, (Chapter 5).
Yang, M. N., & Su, S. M. (2003). A Study of Taiwanese Nursing Students’ and In-Service Nurses’ English Needs. Journal of Chang Gung Institute of Technology, 2, 269-284.  
 


