An Exploration of Taiwanese Nursing Professionals’ Perceptions of ESP Courses
Abstract
In recent years, there has been a growing emphasis on the delivery of English for Specific Purposes (ESP) courses to improve the English proficiency of nursing professionals in Taiwan. This research aimed to explore nurses’ perspectives on courses being provided. A qualitative case study approach was utilised in order to fulfil the aims of the research, using data from nine Taiwanese nursing professionals working in a large hospital with an international care centre providing medical services to foreign patients. Semi-structured interview and shadowing observation were the primary methods of data collection. Participants claimed that, although they were useful in some respects, ESP courses remained unsatisfactory as they failed to cater for their needs, wants and lacks. Misguided teaching focuses and inappropriate teaching methods were identified as being the two major reasons for the participants’ dissatisfaction. Probing the background to these negative perceptions of ESP courses, I expect this research to shed some light on ESP education in the nursing field, whose purpose is providing nurses with the language ability they need to carry out their duties.

Key words: English for Specific Purposes (ESP), nursing

ESP courses continue not to realize their stated aims for Taiwanese nursing professionals since they fail to cater for nurses’ needs, wants and lacks.  
English use in the interaction with foreign patients is an anxiety-provoking experience for nurses. More importantly, nurses’ work performance is degraded by their lack of English.
As well as technical English used in the professional context, ESP course instructors must focus attention on the general English that nurses use in oral communication with the public because it serves as their main tool for communication with patients. 







 
1. Introduction
English has played an important communicative role in international economics, culture and politics for decades, becoming a global language (Seidlhofer, 2005). The importance of English is also reflected in the hospital setting in Taiwan nowadays. Two main reasons have the capacity to explain this phenomenon: (1) a culturally-diverse society and (2) a change in nursing practice. 

As to the first reason—a culturally-diverse society, over recent years, the number of foreigners in Taiwan has gradually increased. According to statistics from the Bureau of Employment and Vocational Training, Executive Yuan (2015), the four most common foreign ethnic groups among the Taiwanese population are: Indonesian, Vietnamese, Filipino and Thai. The total number of foreigners working in Taiwan in 2015 reached 518,544, which is the highest number ever. Many large-scale hospitals in Taiwan, such as Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Taipei Medical University-Wan-Fan Hospital, have recently established international wards or international centres in order to serve these foreigners and to attract more people from western countries to come to Taiwan to use Taiwanese medical services. English, as a consequence, is regarded as an important oral communication tool in the hospital setting in Taiwan when foreigners seek medical services from Taiwanese healthcare professionals because the ever-increasing population of foreigners and Taiwanese healthcare professionals share no native tongue (Chen, 2010; Kao et al., 2007). 

As to the second reason—a change in nursing practice, nurses nowadays in Taiwan embrace the notion of a right to know in their nursing philosophies. Nurses in hospitals are not considered to be health authorities as they were in earlier days. Rather, the concept of partnership in the nurse-patient relationship is highly valued. This means that both the patient and the nurse are centralities in the process of healthcare. The nurse is viewed as a professional whose job is to help his or her patients recover from illness, and the patient is regarded as having the right to know his or her health condition and to actively take part in treatment (Chen, 2010; Kuo et al., 2012). According to the National Union of Nurses’ Associations (2008) in Taiwan, there are four main duties of the nurse in everyday nursing practice: (1) assessing patients’ health problems, (2) providing clinical instructions, (3) offering nursing care and (4) assisting doctors with medical procedures. For the four duties, oral communication accounts for a significant part of the responsibility. This means that nurses need to have good communication skills when gathering information from their patients to assess their health problems, when offering information about medications, and when explaining purposes and procedures to their patients to obtain their permission to engage in nursing interventions or medical procedures. Therefore, nurses who care for foreign patients undoubtedly need to be able to speak English and to communicate with foreign patients if they are to carry out their nursing duties. Foreign patients, who only understand English (and their own mother tongue), have the right to know their condition, to have communications clearly expressed to them and to have proper nursing care (Chen, 2010; Guttman, 2004).  

In view of the increasing language expectations and requirements placed on nurses, nursing colleges/universities have made important policy changes to improve the English ability of Taiwanese nurses necessary for proper nursing care. According to the official websites of the nursing colleges/universities in the Taiwanese Technical and Vocational Education system, most of the nursing junior colleges in Taiwan (21 out of 23) and Universities of Science and Technology (11 out of 11) have developed ESP courses for their students to cope with these increasing English language demands. However, according to Shi (2009) and Belcher (2004, 2009), ESP is learner-centred. This is to say, although the objective needs of a target situation (i.e. the specification of the language determined by the target situation) are a vital element in ESP, students’ subjective opinions and expectations should also be considered (Belcher & Lukkarila, 2011; Kaur, 2007; Tudor, 1997). In other words, learners should be closely involved in the decision-making process of course design. Their voices should not be neglected (Hutchinson & Waters, 1987; Nunan, 1988). In the case of Taiwan, while moves on ESP have been made by nursing colleges/universities, it is imperative to explore nurses’ own perspectives on the ESP courses provided them. Nurses’ voices should be heard since they are the ones actually using English to perform their jobs. So far, in Taiwan, there has been no in-depth description and exploration of perspectives from this special group of people. In other words, nurses’ voices and opinions have been ignored. This gap inspired the present research. Thus, the aim of this study is to fill the gap identified in existing research into ESP, that is, to explore nurses’ perspectives on ESP courses provided to them.  

2. Literature review
2.1 Learner-centredness in ESP
Learner-centredness in ESP indicates that the learner is at the centre of language learning. Besides necessities (i.e. the kind of needs determined by the requirements of the target situation) and lacks (i.e. necessities that the learner lacks), wants (i.e. the learner’s subjective and personal feelings of what he or she wants to learn) must also be included (Hutchinson and Waters, 1987). Thus, the learner is strongly encouraged to establish learning goals and to choose learning methods and materials catering for his or her needs. In other words, the teacher is not the one controlling learning; he or she only plays a secondary role in helping the learner to achieve learning goals. It is the learner who has control over the course of his or her own learning. In this sense, to analyse the learner’s needs, to acknowledge the learner’s contributions to the learning process and to fulfil learning become the primary goals of instructional programmes (Belcher, 2004, 2009; Johns & Price-Machado, 2001; Shi, 2009). This learner-centred approach to ESP is supported by many theorists and researchers. Brunton (2009) states that negotiated syllabi in which learners actively participate in establishing goals and in designing the content of the course are the direction ESP courses should move towards. Hussin (2002) argues that learners’ active involvement in the ESP course design process not only facilitates learners in identifying their language problems but also prepares them for their future working lives. After reviewing Mead’s (1980) research in which students’ motivation towards learning English for their subject specialism was explored, Hutchinson and Waters (1987) remark that using the results of target situation analysis as the only source for the learning content is insufficient. The research findings of Mead’s study demonstrated that the participants were not motivated in learning subject-specific texts in English because they had no interest. For those participants, learning specific English for their subject specialism was like “salt in a wound” (Hutchinson & Waters, 1987, p. 57). Hutchinson and Waters therefore conclude that it is easy for ESP teachers to assume that as long as the course is relevant to the target needs, learners are interested in learning it. However, there is no relationship between the perceived target needs of ESP teachers and the subjective needs of learners. And there is no obvious reason why the latter should be neglected.   

2.2 The results of previous ESP research  
Recently, more and more attention has been given to ESP courses for nursing professionals. Bosher and Smalkoski (2002) used questionnaires, interviews and observations to find out both the objective and subjective English needs of a group of ESL nursing students and then established an ESP course catering for the participants’ needs, difficulties and wants. Role-play, class discussion, and watching videotapes were the main methods used to deliver the course. At the end of the course, the students provided positive feedback on this tailored course. Similarly, Miguel et al. (2006) reported the process of designing and delivering an ESP course based on the needs, expectations, and difficulties of a group of EFL nursing students. The course was delivered by means of various authentic communicative activities (e.g. introducing selves to patients, responding to patients’ requests, providing clinical instructions, etc.). The learners gave the course a mean score of 4.8 (out of 5) for satisfaction with the learning experience at its end. In Taiwan, there have been some studies conducted to identify nurses’ English needs. For example, Chen (2010) conducted a survey in order to understand nurses’ English problems. The findings demonstrated that up to 96.4 % of 1,051 nurses working in the Tzu-Chi medical system (There are six Tzu-Chi hospitals located in different areas in Taiwan) had communication difficulties in English when caring for foreign patients. Lu et al. (2009) interviewed 51 nursing professionals working in the outpatient department of the Chang-Gung Memorial Hospital, a large-scale medical centre in the north of Taiwan, in order to understand their language needs. It was found that up to 72% of the nurses had difficulty in using English to communicate with foreign patients. Of the foreign patients surveyed, only 32% of were satisfied with the nursing services provided. Poor English communication ability among the nursing staff was the major reason for the lack of satisfaction with the nursing. A small-scale study conducted by Kao et al. (2007) also demonstrated similar results. Questionnaires were distributed to nine Taiwanese in-service nurses at the Delivery Room in Mackay Memorial Hospital to understand their English needs in the workplace. Observations were conducted to investigate how the nurses used English in the hospital. The study found that 55.6% of the clinical nurses felt anxious and nervous when they were required to speak English with foreign patients. 66.7% of the participants relied on doctors to translate English to Chinese for them.  

In the current study, Hutchinson and Waters’s (1987, p. 22) model of ESP course design, which includes the three important elements: (1) language descriptions, (2) needs analysis and (3) learning theories (see Figure 1), served as a systematic guideline to explore Taiwanese nursing professionals’ perspectives on ESP courses because it was thought that the reason for Taiwanese nurses’ oral-aural difficulties in English, as indicated above, might be identified through further delineation of the model itself. Is it due to their not having sufficient conversation practice in the class (this relates to the learning theories of the model) or due to what they have learned from ESP courses not matching what they need for work (this relates to the needs analysis of the model)?  




Figure 1 The model of ESP course design







 
2.3 Language, beyond being a tool of information transmission  
According to Halliday (2004, 2009), language is used to fulfil people’s social purposes. The properties of language have been shaped and determined by the way people use it in daily life. It enables people to engage in social activities, to create and maintain social life and to express feelings and understandings. These, he called the interpersonal functions of language. In this sense, language goes beyond being an information transmission tool; it involves the process of how people and relations are approached through language. This relates to Spencer-Oatey’s (2000, p. 12) “rapport management,” in which language constructs, maintains, manages or damages the social relations of people. Natural data also show that people engage in interactional talk which acts as a lubricant, establishing roles and relationships even in highly transactional settings (McCarthy, 1991). In intercultural contact, language is also the place where people demonstrate their beliefs, feelings and identities (Cutting, 2008). Cioffi (2003) indicates that the hospital is a place where intercultural contact often occurs as nurses and patients speak different languages and come from different cultural backgrounds. Language use in communication, apart from being a tool of transmitting messages, Nailon (2007) remarks, facilitates the building of meaningful relationships between nurses and patients. By asking the right questions and listening to patients’ accounts with empathy, trusting relationships with patients can be built and status differences can be minimised (Shi, 2009). In other words, interactional talk is the crux of transcultural care; it enables healthcare professionals to understand patients’ situations, sympathise with their patients’ isolated feelings and reduce marginalisation (Cioffi, 2003).  

A number of studies exist exploring ethnic groups’ perspectives on the nursing care they have experienced. They reveal that language and communication lead to people who do not share any common cultural experience drifting apart. For example, Hamilton and Essat (2008) conducted unstructured interviews with minority ethnic groups in order to understand their experience of using nursing services within the National Health Service (NHS) in the UK. The participants were from various countries, such as India and China. A majority of the participants expressed their dissatisfaction with nursing care from their experience of hospitalisation. Nurses’ neglect of patients’ needs and lack of language ability to communicate with patients were extracted from the data as representing the hospitalisation experience of these minority ethnic groups. These findings echo those of Eckhardt et al. (2005) in their study of older non-English speaking German clients’ perceptions of nursing care in Australia. The participants in the interviews indicated that they had a feeling of being isolated when they were hospitalised since they differed from Australians in terms of race, language and background. Similarly, Clegg (2003) conducted a small-scale study to investigate perspectives on nursing care experienced by seven older south Asian patients who lived in two community hospitals in an inner city in England. The participants in the interview expressed their negative feeling of being cared for due to the language barrier: “…when I tried to express my feelings staff just smiled and backed away. You feel like you are deaf and dumb because people don’t respond to you and you cannot communicate…” (p. 286).

3. Methodology
Case study was chosen as the most appropriate methodology for the research as nurses, nursing practice and the hospital context are its primary interests. These three comprise a bounded system, a defining characteristic of the case study approach. Table 1 summarises the characteristics of the case.  

Table 1 The characteristics of the case

The case   
Hospital characteristics
  Location: Taoyuan; a major city in which foreigners work and live; 
  Scale: a district teaching hospital, with several branches in other locations in Taiwan; 
  Departments: three main medical departments (i.e. the department of internal medicine, the department of surgery, and the specialist center) related to clinical care. Each department is further divided into several sub-departments;
  Features: the establishment of an international care centre to provide English medical services to foreign patients and to improve the medical reputation of Taiwan.   

Participant characteristics
  Pei Yek, Chung (from the specialist center);  
  Chia Yi, Ling (from the surgical department);
  Jin Hua, Cho (from internal medicine department);

Nursing practice characteristics
  Nursing duties: 
(1) assessing patients’ health problems; 
(2) providing clinical instructions; 
(3) offering nursing care; 
(4) assisting doctors with medical procedures.

The study adopted the semi-structured interview and shadowing observation as its methods of data generation. The reasons for this are rooted in my ontological and epistemological positions. From my ontological perspective, people’s understandings, experiences and values constitute important properties of so called reality. Therefore, engaging in close collaboration with the nurses and seeing the target setting itself—the hospital, the nurses’ daily routines, interactions, and language were central to the development of this study. My epistemological position suggests that the most legitimate way to produce meaningful data is to interact with people, to ask them questions, to listen to them in order to enter the heads of the participants and to understand their worlds, because, according to my understanding, knowledge is created through active questioning and answering as a product of the collaboration of both the interviewer and the interviewee. The observations in the surgical ward in the hospital were conducted over eight consecutive days in the spring term of 2011. The duration of these observations was from 15th to 22nd of Feb (day shift: 0800-1600). The interviews were conducted in Chinese (The participants sometimes spoke English. Although there were some grammatical mistakes in their English, I have not made any corrections in my transcriptions. English spoken by the participants was shadowed in grey and enclosed with double quotation marks) and took place in the hospital over a six-month period, from September 2011 to March 2012. 

3.1 Researcher identity
Before working as an English teacher, I was a nurse in a district hospital in Taiwan. Having been involved in nursing for a number of years, I had an intimate knowledge of nursing duties and the influences of the increasing cultural diversity of society on nursing practice. 

In the process of data collection, my epistemological position, which is to seek to understand “how life experiences both enable and inhibit particular kinds of insight” (Rosaldo, 2000, p. 532), exerted an influence on the data collected. I defined my role as a collaborative participant, in the hope of developing the perspective of an insider, and of constructing knowledge in collaboration with the people whose realities were to be studied. Adler and Adler’s (1987, p. 47) words, “peripheral membership roles”, provide a good description of my role at the observation site. With the permission of the head nurse, I offered trivial assistance to the nurses, such as giving new patients an orientation to the ward, answering the nurse call button and so on. I asked the participants many questions related to the research during the whole observation process. I also shared meals with many nursing professionals during lunch time, discussing the latest issues related to nursing practice and to their jobs. I developed quite a close relationship with some of the nurses as observations progressed. To some extent, at least, the nurses treated me as a partner because of my background. They spoke using professional jargon to me, saying such things as, “My patient’s HB (haemoglobin) is below six”, and assumed that I would understand the deep meaning of this utterance. Spending time with the nurses, my feeling of identification as a clinical nurse gradually re-gained strength for me. I considered myself as a nursing partner who had a certain degree of understanding of nursing practice and of their world. As an ex-nurse, I wished to know more about their clinical experience related to patient care and language difficulties to enable their voices to be heard. Such forms of reflexivity (see Dowling, 2006; Guba & Lincoln, 2005; King & Horrocks, 2010; Pillow, 2003; Salzman, 2002 for more discussions on reflexivity) are not an attempt to reinforce my authority by emphasising the sharing of similar experiences to those of my participants. Rather, my standpoint is that my position allows me to interpret the data from a particular angle. I agree with Patton (2002) that absolute objectivity and a value-free stance are impossible to be achieved, since in qualitative research researchers are themselves an instrument of data collection and data production. Instead of attempting to separate myself from the study and pretending that I was an objective researcher, I chose to make my position in the study explicit, and accepted that it had an effect on the study and its findings. My roles, my relationship with the participants, and my background inevitably influenced the data collected. This indicates that the findings of this study cannot be separated from the context in which they were generated.  

3.2 Data analysis
The research adopted the flow of data analysis proposed by Chang (2010). She provides a comprehensive model of qualitative data analysis, which includes five steps: (1) transcribing, (2) conceptualising, (3) propositionalising, (4) graphing and (5) theorising. Chang’s model is actually based on Carney’s “ladder of analytical abstraction” (1990, p. 128). What is emphasised in this model is data transformation. The properties of transcriptions are different from those of concepts; the properties of concepts are different from those of propositions; the properties of propositions are different from those of theories. As the data analysis proceeds step by step, the quantity of information obtained is more condensed, the meaning of information is richer, and the density of theory is higher. 

4. Findings and discussions 
4.1 Realistic English use in the hospital 
English is a foreign language in Taiwan, which means that people seldom use English to communicate. However, the hospital in which the research was carried out is a large-scale hospital. It has established an international care centre in which many foreign patients from different countries seek medical services. Therefore, nurses in the hospital have many opportunities to speak English and to care for patients from different countries. When they do this, they need to use general English, rather than technical English (i.e. medical terminology), to carry out their everyday duties. However, this poses a considerable challenge to the nurses. As one of the nurses noted, 
 
…you can’t use professional English to communicate with your foreign patients even though they are from English-speaking countries…For example, you wouldn’t say－ Your GOT (glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase) is higher than the normal level. You probably say－There is an infection in your liver. But, this is the most difficult to me (Participant Ling)
 
My observation notes also confirmed this. For instance, there was a nurse who needed to convey a message to one of her patients from Cambodia passed on to her by the nurse on the previous shift－Gram-positive bacilli had been found in the patient’s blood. Cefa (Cefazoline, a common kind of intravenous antibiotic in the hospital) was being prescribed for a few days. When she did this, the English she used showed significant amounts of grammatical reduction, translating the message into, “Bac…teria in your blood. Antibiotics need eat.” I discussed with the nurse what I had noted after she had finished her patient care activities. She replied, 

You can’t use this [medical language] to your patients, no matter they are Taiwanese or foreign patients. You have to translate medical language into one which is understandable for non-specialists (Participant Yi)
4.2 Lacks in English
The great majority of the participants’ difficulties in English occur while caring for foreign patients. During the period of observation, I was lucky to have a number of opportunities to observe interactions between nurses and foreign patients, and note down some instances of the nurses’ English difficulties caused by such interactions. The nurses’ difficulties in English can be discussed in terms of four aspects of these interactions: (1) vocabulary limitations, (2) pronunciation problems, (3) unfamiliar accents and (4) passive coping strategies. 
 
4.2.1 Vocabulary limitations 
Vocabulary limitations were indicated as a problem by four nurses in the interviews. The following examples show them recalling instances in which they could not think of the proper word to express themselves when talking with foreign patients.     

I think I know too little vocabulary [in English]. So, whenever I need to say something, I just can’t find the word…For example, I want to say－Don’t carry heavy stuff more than 3 kilograms to my patient. I don’t know the English word for heavy stuff (Participant Yi) 
 
I don’t think I’ve learned enough vocabulary to express myself. For example, I want to say－I am going to start your intravenous (IV) drip…I don’t know the English word for start (Participant Chia)
 
In my field notes, I also noted down several instances of nurses who had difficulty in thinking of general English words to substitute for medicalese when they talked to foreign health aides (i.e. caregivers who assist Taiwanese patients to fulfil the basic needs of their daily lives). The following (see Table 2) was not unusual in my field notes.  
Table 2 An example of the nurses’ difficulties in thinking of general English words
Time/Place
Event/ Interaction
Content
Feb, 21 /the patient’s room
Administering medications/
nurse-foreign healthcare aide
The nurse took the medicine and walked into the room. The patient was accompanied by a foreign healthcare aide who could only speak English. The nurse wanted to say, “The medicine must be taken before breakfast” in English. She spoke English to the foreign healthcare aide, “This (she pointed to the medicine) is for…um… for AC (ante cibum) use.” The foreign healthcare aide looked very confused and said in English, “What?” The nurse replied, “Um…before…erm… for AC… AC, you know?” Finally, the nurse looked at me and said, “Could you please tell her that the medicine is for “AC” use?”
  
This example, apart from providing an instance of the nurses’ English vocabulary limitations, has another two functions here. First, it shows that the nurse’s coping strategies for English difficulties were quite passive. She did not try to use different strategies to get the meaning across, for instance, using body language, rewording the sentence, etc. Rather, she directly asked for help from me. Second, it demonstrates my unique role at the observation site. Although I defined my role as a peripheral membership role, there were many times that the nurses in the ward treated me as one of their partners as they often used medical terminology with me, and asked me to facilitate the communication between them and foreign patients, the topics of which were usually related to the nursing profession. In the example above, the nurse used the medical word “AC use” with me, which, in the medical field, means taking medications before meals. She appears to have assumed that I had professional nursing knowledge and that I could understand what AC meant. This finding refers to my specific role in the data construction, and suggests that I, as a researcher, influenced the data collected.  

What nurses have difficulties with is general English used in oral communication with foreign patients and foreign healthcare aides. This finding is in line with those of other studies of the language difficulties of ESL-speaking nursing students (see Cameron, 1998; Miguel et al., 2006). It has been indicated in these studies that ESL-speaking nursing students have no problem with using technical English. Their main difficulty lies in paraphrasing it in vernacular terms understandable to outsiders of the medical field. In this study, the words “start”, “heavy stuff” and “before meals” in the examples above are included in the 1000 must-learn basic English words that primary school students in Taiwan have to learn (Ministry of Education, 2003). When I told the nurses the English words for “heavy stuff”, “start” and “before meals”, the following response was typical, “It’s so simple. Of course, I’ve learned the words in high school. But I don’t know how to use these general English words in the hospital.”

4.2.2 Pronunciation problems
Pronunciation problems are identified as an obstacle in the interaction with foreign patients and foreign doctors. The following examples indicate that the nurses’ English pronunciation is problematic. The problem might not be immediately recognised as an obvious one since it does not impede mutual understanding among Taiwanese healthcare professionals. See the following example (Table 3) from my field notes. 
Table 3 An example of the nurses’ pronunciation problems in English 
Time/Place
Event/ Interaction
Content
Feb, 16 /
the nurses’ station  
Shift reports/
nurse-nurse
Nurse A: …“/gɑːrdʒ/” is used on the patient’s right leg. Please change dressings four times a day. Use special surgical tapes for covering over wounds because the patient is “/ˈɑːˈlɑːr.dʒ/” to common surgical tapes. 
Nurse B: Ok, no problem… 
(Note: The words /gɑːrdʒ/ and /ˈɑːˈlɑːr.dʒ/ appeared in the conversation more than once, but I had no idea what they meant. I was really curious what they were and followed the nurse to check them out. Finally, I realised that /gɑːrdʒ/ meant gauze and that /ˈɑːˈlɑːr.dʒ/ meant allergic).  

In fact, the words /gɑːrdʒ/ and /ˈɑːˈlɑːr.dʒ/ appeared in the shift reports of the nurses at the observation site many times during the period of observation. Although the English pronunciation of these two words is problematic, the nurses seemed not to recognise this. My interview data also confirm this. A nurse from the surgical department noted that she understood clearly that her pronunciation was problematic. But, she argued, in the hospital, no one actually cared about their pronunciation as long as their pronunciation was the same as others.  

In our hospital, there are few foreign doctors from Indonesia or Malaysia. One of these doctors has ever mentioned to me that many Taiwanese healthcare professionals’ English pronunciation is problematic. I can give you an example…um…the word esophagus should be pronounced as “/ɪˈsɒf.ə.gəs/”, but you know in here we always pronounce as “/ɪ.səˈfɒ.dul/”. You know in the hospital, everyone says in this way, and you wouldn’t think your pronunciation is wrong (Participant Ling)

Problematic English pronunciation, although being accepted by the group members, causes a problem when the nurses need to communicate with foreign patients or foreign doctors. The following example (see Table 4) from my field notes indicates this.

Table 4 An example of the nurses’ pronunciation problems in English
Time/Place
Event/ Interaction
Content
Feb, 17 / the patient’s room  
Administering medications/ 
nurse-foreign patient
A nurse was performing morning care at around 8:30 am. She bought medications and walked into the room. The patient was from Thailand and could only speak a little Chinese. Before giving the medications to the patient, the nurse tried very hard to explain the effects and side effects of the medications. She said in English, “This is for /gəʊl/. It can decrease your urine acid.” The patient seemed to have difficulty understanding her. He replied, “What? /gəʊl/?” The nurse said in a higher volume, “Yes, /gəʊl/… /gəʊst/, you know?” The conversation went on for a while. Finally, the patient gave up clarifying what /gəʊl/ or/gəʊst/ was and took the medications. Afterwards, I clarified with the nurse and realised what she wanted to express was the word gout. 
 
4.2.3 Unfamiliar accents  
Complicating the participants’ attempts to understand oral English is the unfamiliar accent of many patients. The following data from interviews show that foreign patients’ accents pose challenges to the nurses studied. 

…he [a foreign patient from the Netherlands] spoke English with a unique accent, which was quite different from Taiwanese people and which made him even more difficult to be understood (Participant Chia)
  
Liao (2007) argues that Taiwanese students are more conversant with American English since English education in Taiwan uses American English as a standard. His assertion is supported by Wang et al. (2008) in their study exploring the learning experience of Taiwanese nursing students studying in Australia. They remark that the accent problem is one of the major difficulties of Taiwanese students since American English is highly valued in Taiwan. In Taiwan, the hospital is a place where patients from different backgrounds seek medical services. In the case of the hospital where the research was carried out, nurses have encountered patients from Japan, the Netherlands, Egypt, America, and other countries. The research findings reveal what the side effects are if Taiwanese learners only study American English: when nurses need to care for patients whose English is not the typical American dialect, listening difficulties arise.  

4.2.4 Passive coping strategies  
The following data show that the participants developed passive coping strategies for coping with their English difficulties. They chose to escape, escape talking to and escape caring for foreign patients. The feeling of freezing or stammering in front of foreign patients embarrassed them. Thus, they chose not to speak when performing patient care for foreign patients. Although they wanted to say something to comfort or to encourage them, they did not think that their English allowed them to do so.  
  
    If my patients are Taiwanese, I will say some positive words such as ‘Your wound is healing, and this is good news’, ‘well done’ and so on. But if my patients are foreigners, I will remain salient or only say “I change wound”. You know, I really want to say more positive words to make them feel better, but I can’t, due to the language barrier (Participant Chia)  

The example above not only shows the nurse’s passive coping strategies in communicating with foreign patients but also demonstrates how language operates at the interpersonal level as defined by Halliday (2009). It expresses feelings and shows empathy in intercultural interaction. According to the nurse, positive words, such as ‘Your wound is healing, and this is good news’, or ‘well done’ make patients feel better. The nurse wished to use such language as a tool to show her understanding and to express her empathy for those from different cultural backgrounds and with different statuses in the interaction. However, her language deficiencies in listening and speaking in general English prohibited her from doing so. Language differences between patients and nurses made supportive communication and interactional talk a difficult task to carry out, which fact might trigger patients’ feelings of being isolated or of being treated without empathy. In the voices of most of the participants in the study, I heard a call for ESP instructors to teach nursing students and nurses what strategies can be adopted to enable them to communicate with foreign patients. This need to teach communication should perhaps be among the most important features of an ESP course for nurses, based on this finding of the importance of listening and speaking for nurses working in Taiwan, with its present enrichment through multi-cultural diversity.    

4.3 Necessities in English 
All participants in the interview agreed that listening and speaking competence in English is necessary. It is an important tool through which proper nursing care can be delivered and upon which a good nurse-patient relationship can be built. As one of the nurses noted,
 
When you face foreign patients, you must have oral-aural skills in English. If you don’t understand what foreign patients are asking, you can’t communicate with them and can’t provide proper care they need. And it is impossible to build the nurse-patient relationship with them under such situation (Participant Ling)  
 
Working in the different departments contributes to the nurses’ different perspectives on the needs for English competence. In the internal medicine department, the great majority of patients who seek medical services are older Taiwanese people with chronic diseases (e.g. renal diseases, diabetes, etc.). English is only used in the context of shift reports. When English is used, it is used in vocabulary (i.e. medical terminology), the greater part of which belongs to the medical register. On the other hand, the requirements of speaking and listening ability in English are more demanding for nurses working in both the surgical department and the specialist centre. The characteristics of these two departments are quite different from those of the medical department. They are designed for patients who are diagnosed with acute diseases or injuries. Therefore, compared to nurses working in the internal medicine department, nurses working in these two departments have more opportunities to care for patients from different countries. The following data show the English needs of the surgical department.    
  
Apart from medical terminologies [in English] used among nurses in the shift reports, I also use complete sentences [in English] when I need to communicate with foreign patients. For example, “You will prepare operation, so midnight do not drink or eat anything.”; “How about you feel?” (Participant Ling)

As can be seen from the example above, the nurse was using English to impart information and request actions on the part of the hearers. The utterances in shadow have illocutionary force. These examples indicate that nurses working in the surgical department and specialist centre have more complex English language use in terms of the variety of speech acts.     

Nurses’ different English needs show that English use in the hospital draws on different kinds of language. This indicates that each system of language description (e.g. discourse analysis, register analysis, etc.) will have its place in ESP, and none of them can be replaced by others (Hutchinson & Waters, 1987). The selection depends on whether the system provides a proper description of the language knowledge required to satisfy learner needs. The pragmatic aspect of English, according to the participants, causes great problems for them. This important finding has implications for ESP course designers in nursing colleges/universities preparing ESP courses which aim to serve nurses and student nurses who need such knowledge to perform their jobs. Although a group of nurses work in the same organisation, different working environments in which the nurse participants are involved result in different caring experiences for them. These environments and experiences constitute the nurses’ perspectives on their required proficiency in English. These differing perspectives show that there can be no objective reality of needs and that needs are subject to the individual’s different environments and their subjective interpretations and judgements of these environments. Therefore, it might be difficult to have an ESP course which is able to cater for the needs of nurses working in all departments of a hospital. Their needs depend on what nursing specialisation they are going to engage in.  

4.4 Subjective wants in English
In Taiwan, much of the ESP research conducted aims to identify needs related to the target site. Interestingly, what was found in this study is that the participants’ needs and wants in English tended to be the same. The participants wanted to learn listening and speaking in general English as their personal wants in order to be able to talk to foreign patients and to provide proper nursing care to them. This insight is illustrated in the following example. 

Listening and speaking…I think listening and speaking abilities are very important when I need to care for foreign patients. If I don’t understand them, how can I communicate with them? How can I provide them with proper care they need? (Participant Yi)

None of the participants interviewed had been asked what they wanted to learn to fulfil their expectations when they took their ESP courses during their college/university years. In other words, their voices were neglected. They simply learned what had been pre-designed for them. However, despite not being involved in the process of course design, their evaluations of the ESP courses were not extremely negative. It was true that they did not like the courses as their subjective wants were not satisfied. But, even though dissatisfaction did exist, they still believed that they had learned something beneficial to their job from them, namely, medical terminology in English. And this made the nurses appreciate the value of the courses. As one of them noted,
 
I can’t completely deny its value. If I had never had this course, I would have great difficulties in medical terminologies in English. But, I can’t see its help to my development of listening and speaking competence in English since I have great difficulties in communicating with foreign patients right now (Participant Chia) 

Theoretically, what is emphasised in ESP is the central role of the learner (Dudley-Evans & St John, 1998; Hutchinson & Waters, 1987). In other words, the course should be centred on the learner. The data in this study speak to the pervasiveness of non-recognition of the learner’s voice in ESP in Taiwan. Although the nurses in the study acknowledged some gains from the courses, they expressed disappointment about how little the courses had prepared them for their jobs.  

4.5 Teaching methods and teaching focuses
Very few nurses in the study held a positive attitude towards their past learning experience. Being nurses involved in clinical nursing practice for some time, they believed that the teaching methods their ESP teachers adopted were not only enjoyable but fulfilling for their job requirements. 

She [the ESP teacher] used English to teach English…and always used many methods to let us understand her such as body languages and realistic objects, small games, or structuring sentences in an easy way, and then interact with her. She was also good at using jokes to explain difficult grammar…I have benefited a lot and I think this is a right method for fulfilling my job requirements (Participant Cho) 

we had many learning activities such as role play, pair discussion, and group discussion…In the process of discussion, we helped each other, trying to make use of what we’ve learned and what we remembered from the course to write a script for role play…And I am not afraid of speaking English with foreign patients through such training (Participant Hua)

In the examples above, being immersed in the environment full of English, according to the participants, was a great advantage for developing their listening and speaking abilities. The teaching methods adopted relate to Interaction Hypothesis (Long, 1996) and sociocultural theory (Lantolf, 1995, 2000, 2006, 2011). The teachers used some strategies such as body language, role play and group discussion to interact with their students, to get them involved in learning and to let them help each other. In such the learning process, these nurses gradually learned English knowledge by carrying out or engaging in tasks under the support and guidance of other more skilled people.  

The majority of the nurse participants had negative attitudes towards their ESP courses. Based on the nurses’ accounts, the major characteristics of the traditional teaching methods adopted by the nurses’ ESP teachers are summarised.  
(1) Chinese is the main language used during the course, with little use of English;
(2) English vocabulary is taught in the form of isolated words; 
(3) Grammatical rules are explicitly explained;
(4) Much of the class time is spent on the exercise of grammar and translation; 
(5) Reading activities are considerably used in the class, and the focus of them is the translation of English to Chinese;  
(6) Great proportions of class time are given to repetitive drills;  
(7) There is dependence on memorisation over learning.

The traditional teaching methods (i.e. the Grammar Translation Method & the Audiolingual method) adopted by the nurse participants’ ESP teachers made the nurses afraid of using English in oral communications with foreign patients. In Taiwan, English is treated as a subject at school rather than as an oral communication tool used to exchange messages in daily life. Thus, traditional teaching methods are widely used in nursing colleges/universities (Wang et al., 2008). The language learning process is then reduced to merely the accuracy of vocabulary and grammar. Students’ communicative competence is the main deficiency resulting from the teaching methods used (Brown, 2000; Liao, 2004). According to the participants, their training in listening and speaking was not sufficient. Most of the participants in this study had studied English for at least nine years. However, their limited experience of using English for realistic communicative purposes posed a great disadvantage to them. The principle of how to select appropriate teaching methods for ESP teachers is succinctly expressed by Hutchinson and Waters (1987, p. 51)—“It is important, therefore, not to base any approach too narrowly on one theory”. The striking predominance of the methods results in participants’ negative attitudes towards ESP courses and the insufficiency of listening and speaking competence in English. These nurses expressed their hope of learning English through vivid communicative activities in which they could actively practise speaking and listening in English and accumulate more realistic English using experience. This way of learning English can match up with the manner of using English in the hospital context. In addition, they indicated that their ESP teachers focused primarily on the technical English part and neglected the importance of general English. Such ignorance causes the nurses’ problems and difficulties in using general English when they are required to care for foreign patients.  
  
5. Conclusions
ESP emphasises learner-centeredness. Although the objective needs of a target situation are a vital element in ESP, students’ subjective opinions and expectations should be considered since the learners are at the centrality of language learning. Both the objective needs and subjective wants should go hand in hand in the process of course design. According to the research results, participants’ language necessities, wants and lacks are listening and speaking in English. They were not satisfied with the ESP courses provided; their listening and speaking skills in English were problematic. To a great extent, their work performance was impeded by deficient English. English uses in the interaction with foreign patients (or foreign healthcare aides) caused many anxious and difficult experiences. Thus, apart from technical English used in a highly professional context (i.e. shifting reports among nurses), ESP course designers’ or instructors’ attention must be devoted to general English used in oral communication with the public. It is general English rather than technical English that serves as the main tool of communication with patients. Nailon (2007) remarks that effective communication is crucial to the provision of quality care. When communication cannot be carried out, nurses will have great difficulty in understanding their patients’ needs and building meaningful relationships through which proper and quality care could be provided cannot be built. This increases the risk of adverse health outcomes. In this study, the data have shown that when nurses encountered foreign patients even though they wished to talk to these patients, to show their empathy and to encourage them, nurses’ English deficiencies prohibited them from doing so. If caring for foreign patients brings negative experiences for Taiwanese nurses, it is reasonable to suspect that being cared for by Taiwanese nurses brings negative experience for foreign patients as well. Such experience, I assumed, will not bring any help to the nursing reputation of Taiwan.

By exploring the perspectives of those who were involved in the ESP courses and who are currently involved in clinical nursing practice, this research shows that the ESP courses, although being useful in some aspects, remained unfulfilling. Swales’s (1989) words provide an answer to explain why the learner is important in the process of ESP course design. To establish a course takes course designers or language teachers a considerable amount of time and effort. If anything goes wrong (e.g. neglect of learner wants, inappropriate learning tasks, unrealistic learning goals, etc.), much of the time and effort are wasted. 



References
Adler, P. A., & Adler, P. (1987). Membership Roles in Field Research. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage, (Chapter 2). 
Belcher, D. (2004). Trends in Teaching English for Specific Purposes. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics, 165-186. 
Belcher, D. (2009). What ESP Is and Can Be: An Introduction. In D. Belcher (Ed.), English for Specific Purposes in Theory and Practice (pp. 1-21). U.S.A: The University of Michigan Press. 
Belcher, D., & Lukkarila, L. (2011). Identity in the ESP Context: Putting the Learner Front and Centre in Needs Analysis. In D. Belcher, A. Johns, & B. Paltridge (Eds.), New Directions in English for Specific Purposes Research (pp. 73-94). U.S.A: The University of Michigan Press. 
Bosher, S., & Smalkoski, K. (2002). From Needs Analysis to Curriculum Development: Designing a Course in Health-Care Communication for Immigrant Students in the USA. English for Specific Purposes, 21, 59-79.
Brown, H. D. (2000). Principles of Language Learning and Teaching. White Plains, NY: Longman, (Chapter 2).
Brunton, M. W. C. (2009). An Evaluation of Students’ Attitudes to the General English and Specific Components of Their Course: A Case Study of Hotel Employees in Chiang Mai, Thailand [online]. English for Specific Purposes World. 
Available at: http://www.esp-world.info/Articles_25/ESP%20world%20study.pdf. [Accessed 20th Jun 2011].
Bureau of Employment and Vocational Training, (2015). Statistics of Foreign Workers [online]. Executive Yuan. Available at: http://iff.immigration.gov.tw/public/Attachment/552913401819.xls [Accessed 26th June 2015].
Cameron, R. (1998). A Language-Focused Needs Analysis for ESL-Speaking Nursing Students in Class and Clinic. Foreign Language Annals, 31 (2), 203-218. 
Carney, T. F. (1990). Collaborative Inquiry Methodology. Windsor, Ontario, Canada: University of Windsor, Division for Instructional Development, (Chapter 5).
Chang, F. (2010). The Five Steps of Qualitative Data Analysis: Climbing up a Ladder of Abstraction. Journal of Elementary Education, 35, 87-120.
Chen, J. (2010). Nursing Beyond Boundaries–A Discussion on Multi-Culture and Transnational Nursing. Tzu-Chi Nursing Journal, 9 (4), 20-26. 
Cioffi, J. (2003). Communicating with Culturally and Linguistically Diverse Patients in an Acute Care Setting: Nurses’ Experiences. International Journal of Nursing Studies, 40, 299-306.
Clegg, A. (2003). Older South Asian Patient and Carer Perceptions of Culturally Sensitive Care in a Community Hospital Setting. Journal of Clinical Nursing, 12 (1), 283-290.
Cutting, J. (2008). Pragmatics and Discourse. London: Routledge, (Chapter 3).  
Dowling, M. (2006). Approaches to Reflexivity in Qualitative Research. Nurse Researcher, 13(3), 7-21. 
Dudley-Evans, T., & St John, M. (1998). Developments in English for Specific Purposes: A Multi-Disciplinary Approach. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, (Chapter 2). 
Eckhardt, R., Mott, S., & Andrew, S. (2005). Nursing for the Masses: Is it an Effective Way to Provide Care to Non-English Speaking Patients? Clinical Effectiveness in Nursing, 9, 62-68. 
Guba, E. G., & Lincoln, Y. S. (2005). Paradigmatic Controversies, Contradictions, and Emerging Confluences. In N. K. Denzin, & Y. S. Lincoln (Eds.), The Sage Handbook of Qualitative Research (pp. 191-217). London: Sage.   
Guttman, M. S. (2004). Increasing the Linguistic Competence of the Nurse with Limited English Proficiency. The Journal of Continuing Education in Nursing, 35(6), 264-269.  
Halliday, M. A. K. (2004). An Introduction to Functional Grammar. London: Hodder Arnold, (Chapter 1).  
Halliday, M.A.K. (2009). The Essential Halliday. London: Continuum, (Chapter 4). 
Hamilton, M., & Essat, Z. (2008). Minority Ethnic Users Experiences and Expectations of Nursing Care. Journal of Research in Nursing, 13, 102-110. 
Hussin, V. (2002). An ESP Programme for Students of Nursing. In T. Orr (Ed.), English for Specific Purposes (pp. 25-41). Virginia: Teachers of English to Speakers of Other Languages, Inc.  
Hutchinson, T., & Waters, A. (1987). English for Specific Purposes. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, (Chapter 6 & 7).
Johns, A., & Price-Machado, D. (2001). English for specific purposes (ESP):
  Tailoring Courses to Student Needs—and to the Outside World. In M. Celce-
  Murcia (Ed.), Teaching English as a Second or Foreign Language (pp. 43-54). Boston: Heinle & Heinle.  
Kao, M.-H., Chen, C.-H., Chang, M.-H., & Huang, C.-H. (2007). A Project to Promote English Conversation Ability among Delivery Room Nurses. Chang Gung Nursing, 4, 561-570. 
Kaur, S. (2007). ESP Course Design: Matching Learner Needs to Aims [online]. English for Specific Purposes World. Available at: http://www.esp-orld.info/Articles_14/DESIGNING%20ESP%20COURSES.htm [Accessed 2th Jun 2011].
King, N., & Horrocks, C. (2010). Interviews in Qualitative Research. London: SAGE, (Chapter 8).
Kuo, C. C., Chin, C. C., & Chou, F. H. (2012). Reflecting on Nurse-Patient Relationships Using Core Postmodernist Concepts. The Journal of Nursing, 59 (1), 72-76. 
Lantolf, J., & Pavlenko, A. (1995). Sociocultural Theory and Second Language Acquisition. Annual Review of Applied Linguistics, 15, 108-124.  
Lantolf, J. (2000). Introducing Sociocultural Theory. In J. Lantolf (Ed.), Sociocultural Theory and Second Language Learning (pp. 1-27). Oxford: Oxford University Press.  
Lantolf, J. (2006). Sociocultural Theory and L2. Studies in Second Language Acquisition, 28, 67-109. 
Lantolf, J. (2011). The Sociocultural Approach to Second Language Acquisition: Sociocultural Theory, Second Language Acquisition, and Artificial L2 Development. In D. Atkinson (Ed.), Alternative Approaches to Second Language Acquisition (pp. 24-48). London: Routledge.  
Liao, P. S. (2007). Teaching of English and Translation. Taipei: Show-We, (Chapter 1).  
Liao, X. (2004). The Need for Communicative Language Teaching in China. ELT Journal, 58(3), 270-273. 
Long, M. H. (1996). The Role of the Linguistic Environment in Second Language Acquisition. In W. C. Richie, & T. K. Bhatia (Eds.), Handbook of Second Language Acquisition (pp. 413-468). San Diego: Academic Press.
McCarthy, M. J. (1991). Discourse Analysis for Language Teachers. Cambridge: CUP, (Chapter 5).   
Mead, R. (1980). Expectations and Sources of Motivation in EAP. English Language Research Journal, 1, 14-28. 
Miguel, C. S., Rogan, F., Kilstoff, K., & Brown, Di. (2006). Clinically Speaking: A communication Skills Programme for Students from Non-English Speaking Backgrounds. Nurse Education in Practice, 6 (5), 268-274.  
Ministry of Education, (2003). 1000 must-learn basic English for both elementary school students and junior high school students [online]. Ministry of Education. Available at:http://www.eje.edu.tw/data/kying/20031222341/1000%20words.htm [Accessed 11th Mar 2012].
Nailon, R. E. (2007). The Assessment and Documentation of Language and Communication Needs in Healthcare Systems: Current Practices and Future Directions for Coordinating Safe, Patient-Centred Care. Nursing Outlook, 55, 311-317. 
National Union of Nurses’ Associations, (2008). The Law of Nursing Practice [online]. The National Union of Nurses’ Associations. Available at: http://www.nurse.org.tw [Accessed 20th June 2009].
Nunan, D. (1988). The Learner-Centred Curriculum: A Study in Second Language Teaching. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, (Chapter 1).
Patton, M. Q. (2002). Qualitative Research and Evaluation Methods. Thousand Oaks, CA: Sage Publications, (Chapter 3). 
Pillow, W. (2003). Confession, Catharsis, or Cure? Rethinking the Uses of Reflexivity as Methodological Power in Qualitative Research. International Journal of Qualitative Studies in Education, 16 (2), 175-196. 
Rosaldo, R. (2000). Grief and a Headhunter’s Rage. In R. Jon McGee, & R. L. Warms (Eds.), Anthropological Theory (pp. 521-535). Mountain View, CA: Mayfield Publishing. 
Salzman, P. C. (2002). On Reflexivity. American Anthropologist, New Series, 104 (3), 805-813. 
Seidlhofer, B. (2005). English as a Lingua Franca. ELT Journal, 59 (4), 339-341. 
Shi, L. (2009). English for Medical Purposes. In D. Belcher (Ed.), English for Specific Purposes in Theory and Practice (pp. 205-229). U.S.A: The University of Michigan Press.  
Spencer-Oatey, H. (2000). Introduction: Language, Culture and Rapport Management. In H. Spencer-Oatey (Ed.), Culturally Speaking: Managing Rapport in Talk across Cultures (pp. 1-10). London: Continuum.  
Swales, J. (1989). Service English Programme Design and Opportunity Cost. In R. Johnson (Ed.), The Second Language Curriculum (pp. 79-91). Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.  
Tudor, I. (1997). LSP or Language Education? In R. Howard, & B. Brown (Eds.), Teachers Education in LSP (pp. 90-102). Clevedon: Multilingual Matters. 
Wang, C. W., Singh, C., Bird, B., Ives, G. (2008). The Learning Experiences of Taiwanese Nursing Students Studying in Australia. Journal of Transcultural Nursing, 19 (2), 140-150. 
 

