0:45 KADY AMUNDSON: I loved the energy of today. I loved the fact that everybody is really, really positive about what we can do in New Orleans.
0:50 AMANDA SIAS: I'll give it a 70 percent chance, that what he said would be counted as realistic.
0:57 JOHN MERROW: Amanda Sias and Kady Amundson are teachers at Rabouin High School. Amanda has been teaching for ten years. Kady is brand new, a member of Teach For America. I sat down with them and Jason Denlinger, a second-year teacher, shortly after Paul Vallas addressed the New Orleans teachers for the first time.
1:16 JOHN MERROW: Let me see, let me see, now, Kady, you’re sort of the new kid on the block. The veteran teacher is skeptical. You SEEM pretty enthusiastic.
1:30 KADY AMUNDSON: It’s hard to be skeptical when you don’t - we haven’t had the life experience that Amanda’s had. So it’s - you know, I don’t - I don’t have the life experience - I don’t have the teaching experience, so I’m naturally not going to be as skeptical because I don’t - I just don’t have the experience. So for me it was probably a little bit more motivating. It was good to see a united front and just to see that number of people that are here between, like, the new teachers, the veteran teachers that return - people returning to New Orleans that are going to teach, and just, like, what the RSD actually looks like.  The most important thing to me was just being in a room with all of these people that are - have the same goal. We’re all trying to improve education in New Orleans within our classroom, within our school, and, you know, on a broader level. So.
2:24 JOHN MERROW: In some sense, though, it was kind of like a revival meeting. Does that stay with you?
2:28 KADY AMUNDSON: Well, the energy is good because you have to have energy to sustain just teaching in general. Like it’s not a nine to five type of job. I mean it’s pretty much consuming, like, you - you have to be involved in your school in so many different ways. And just being a classroom teacher at all takes so much preparations of - just the energy there, just - it’s - I kind of feed off that, knowing that there are other people that are excited about it and they, you know, really want to be here. So that energy was very good.
3:05 JOHN MERROW: Let me ask Jason.
