http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ds1BnPexD30

        "assess-1",
        "Schools and the city",
	"teaching",
	"all",

"2:48 Sarah: Speaking of men, isn't that Parfait?
Kerry: Oh, yeh. The one from the Blue Note.
Parfait: Hey, hi, ladies.
Kerry: Hey, Parfait. How are you?
Parfait: Well, I was on my way to Tira, the new wine bar on the East Side.
Kerry: Oh, very nice. We love our wine.
Sarah: We do. Actually we were just discussing high-stakes meets hot shoes.
Parfait: Okay.
Sarah: And wondering why do you think variety is the spice of assessment.
Kerry: You know, shaking up the standardized.
Parfait: Well, because life assesses you in different ways.
Kerry: Ha, ha. Spoken like a true artist.
Parfait: Well, it's true. I mean today, assessment is moving beyond just 
	assessing where you are at one point in time, to measuring the whole 
	process.  It's so passe to only assess what has been taught. It's like 
	jazz. You don't focus on one individual note, but the whole piece, the 
	harmony, the confluence of the whole ensemble.
Kerry: Exactly. I mean, we want to take a topic or an idea and be able to 
	assess it from many different ways, to see how learning is occurring.
Parfait: That's true. I mean, how it's occurring and for whom it is occurring 
	as well. Are we using the right assessment method for the right age 
	level?
Sarah: Mmh. It kind of makes you think of fashion too. I mean, let's say, if I 
	wanted to wear some hot-pink candy shoes and a miniskirt, would that be 
	age-appropriate?
Kerry: Mmh-hmm?
Parfait: Good point.
Sarah: But I'm going to try them on anyway, Kerry.

True/False questions

"Parfait thinks it is appropriate to use a variety of assessment methods, not 
	just one."
"Sarah thinks fashion is like assessment. Assessment can learn that variety is 
	the spice of life."
"Kerry would like to use a variety of assessment methods to see if learning is 
	occurring."
"Parfait likes assessment to focus on measuring just what has been taught."
"Sarah isn't going to try on the hot shoes, because they are not appropriate 
	for her."
"Kerry wants Parfait to speak to artists and like, shake them up."

<p>
<a href=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BNKbZ1Yf3rQ>Fashionable Frequency in Assessment</a>.
</p>

        "assess-2",
        "Frequency of assessment",
	"teaching",
	"all",
"1:25 Sarah: Exactly. After all, when you think about it, the fashion runways 
	and the freshman hallways aren't that different.
Kerry: It's true.
Sarah: It's all about taking risks and strutting your stuff.
Kerry: And knowing if you trip and fall, you're not going to ruin your couture. 
	Or better yet, your academic reputation.
Sarah: You know, ???. Less is not always more. I mean, when I first started and 
	I was a fashion fledgling, I only went to one, maybe two, fashion shows 
	a year.  And I'm telling you, that just wasn't enough to know what's 
	hot and 
what's not.
Kerry: That's so true. And, when students are given just a few summative tests 
	a year, it's a very limited view. It doesn't really accurately display 
	what's really going on in the classroom, or reflect what teachers are 
	teaching.
Commentary: When it comes to testing, how often is desirable? Excessive testing 
	gets students focused on, 'How well am I doing,' instead of 'What am I 
	learning?'.
	Address whether the time spent testing is disproportionate to the time 
	spent learning.
	More testing also creates a focus on short-term memory instead of 
	long-term memory and actual understanding.
	And reevaluate exam frequency for younger learners, including timed 
	tests.
Kerry: I think the key message here is balance. Too much perfume, accessories 
	or assessments, uhm, becomes overdone, unnecessary, loses its cachet.
Sarah: And too little leaves no lasting impression at all. 

",

True/False questions

"Kerry and Sarah think fashion, and assessment too, is about taking risks 
	without ruining your stuff."
"Sarah thinks one or two tests a year isn't enough. You don't know if you are 
	hot or not."
"Too much testing leaves students focused on memory rather tahan 
	understanding."
"Sarah and Kerry thinks a few summative tests a year are enough to show what's 
	going on."
"Kerry and Sarah think balance is not desirable. Too much testing. Not too 
	little."
"Kerry and Sarah think too much fashion is overdone, but excessive assessment 
	is desirable."

<a href=http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h4BD4-x1dRE>Authentic Assessments meets Couture Curriculum</a>.

        "assess-3",
        "Quality of assessment",
	"teaching",
	"all",
"1:38: Sarah: Speaking of 'enthused,' let's go check out the hot pretzel guys 
	and purses.
Commentary: All this talk about outward appearances got us thinking. When it 
	comes to handbags, men and assessments, is it really what's on the 
	outside that counts?
Sarah: You know, all too often this hot for high stakes leads to an emphasis on 
	numbers. Teaching students how to beat the test.
Kerry: That's so true, you know. And before you know it, teachers become more 
	worried about dark circles and fine lines and the fine line between 
	meeting and exceeding expectations.
Sarah: Yes, that's true. Now, I know that we can both appreciate the appearance 
	of this handbag. But I want to know about the quality. I want to know 
	when I look on the inside, is it crafted with care. Does it have 
	long-lasting appeal?
Kerry: Exactly. I mean, is it a classic? Is it going to be just, here one 
	season, gone the next, replaced by other trends crowding your shelf?
Sarah: Does it have velcro?
Sarah, Kerry: (Laughter)
Sarah: Mmh. Yes, I think that's something that all educators need to really 
	consider as they approach their assessment methods.
Kerry: Absolutely. And know that just because something has been taught doesn't 
	mean that it's been learned and retained. You need to put in assessment 
	practices that will have that long-lasting appeal.
Street vendor: Evaluating from inside a classroom, or a purse, what constitutes 
	a quality piece?
Kerry: What does constitute a quality piece?
Commentary: Feedback that supports learning focuses on students' work. It's 
	descriptive. It helps students improve in future iterations, informs 
	but not overwhelms, and is delivered in time to help. 
Street vendor: I think you need this purse for your (inaudible) tonight.
Sarah: Oh, okay.
Kerry: But you know what, fortunately? The State Departments of Education, as 
	well as lots of great teachers, AKA, the Mr Big. They're stepping up 
	and they're really creating some amazing programs and opportunities for 
	people to train and study and learn more about how to incorporate 
	formative assessment methods into the classroom.
Sarah: And the DOE is also creating a lot of robust professional development 
	opportunities, mentoring.
Kerry: Exactly.
Street vendor: You know what I think? I think Mr Big is (inaudible) from inside 
	and outside the purse.
Sarah, Kerry: (Laughter)
Kerry: So true. Well, thank you.
Street vendor: Thank you.
Kerry: Have a nice day.

",

True/False questions

"What's important is the quality of the purses and assessments, not just how 
	they look."
"Velcro does not appeal to Kerry and Sarah, so they laugh."
"They think they need to look inside the classroom to assess the quality of a 
	test."
"Sarah and Kerry do not asssess the quality of the purses that the guy has."
"The commentary says feedback does not need to inform students about learning."
"Sarah and Kerry think how the purse looks on the outside is more important 
	than how it is crafted on the inside."

        "aft-8",
        "Direct action by teachers",
	"teaching",
	"all",
"Commentary: On November 26, 1946, one of the coldest days of the year, 1,165 
	teachers from Saint Paul, Minnesota went out on strike. 
Murphy: And it seemed as if the Board of Education was holding the line to such 
	a degree that they were forced to go out on the streets and to a 
	strike. But they were also looking forward to kind of breaking that 
	barrier to negotiating, so that they could move from a kind of moral 
	suasion that had been the, the central way in which school teachers had 
	bargained before to collective bargaining, as was known in the new 
	labor movement that had grown in the 1930s. 
Commentary: The strike which lasted nearly six weeks, was the first organized 
	teachers' strike in the country. A startled nation realized that 
	teachers were now willing to use strike as a weapon to fight for better 
	funding and better schools.

",

True/False questions

"The first organized teachers strike in the nation (the U.S.) was in 1946."
"The teachers were willing to move out on the streets and break the barrier to 
	collective bargaining."
"The teachers were willing to fight for better funding by moving to collective 
	bargaining, "
"The new 1930s labor movement in the nation (the U.S.) grew out of the first 
	teachers' strike."
"The commentary says teachers used moral suasion as a weapon to fight the Saint 
	Paul Board of Education."
"The Saint Paul Board of Education forced teachers to move in to schools."

