I heartily recommend Greg Matheson to you. 


Over the 7 years we have been together at Chinmin, it has been a pleasure working with him, both as his both as his dean (ex-dean), and as a colleague. 


He is an excellent teacher. He clearly thinks teaching English is very important, something that we would try very hard to do.. has a high level of verbal intelligence. His old GRE score of 2270 shows that. More importantly, he is expert at devising ways of getting students to use English with him. For example, he designates students each week to grade the class's homework, under his direction. This way, students interact with him outside the classroom. 


He is apparently moved by some deep feeling, some deep desire to teach. I can remember on one occasion him breaking down and leaving the room when his graduating students invited him to a graduation party. He told me he felt he had failed to teach them adequately. He sets himself high standards. This particular class, like all his classes, apparently thought he was a great teacher. They loved him. 


Despite his high standards, he is incredibly patient with his students. He doesn't seem to be upset when they are reluctant to speak. Instead he encourages them and creates a supportive environment so they feel confident and not afraid to mistakes. to be able to handle aren't able to say things perfectly first time. This may be due to his background in psychology and his serious attitude to learning. He seems to have a deep interest in how people learn. 


He also appears to derive a lot of satisfaction from the various games and other interesting activities he has devised. I remember seeing him have students play basketball with paper balls and hoops made of 5-liter water containers. 


More recently, we see in his classes students forming long lines leading to his desk. This is apparently a competition to see who can be the first to get rid of cards. The students have to do some simple task, like matching the cards. 


Sometimes we hear him singing in his class, too. Apparently, he likes to sing. Although, I don't know if we can call him a good singer, they appear to enjoy him using a kazoo to familiarize students with the suprasegmental patterns of English. 


If he is not teaching, he is sitting in front of the computer, writing programs or sending email, or writing teaching materials. 


He tells me most of his programs at the moment are for developing cloze passage exercises, which he uses a lot for exams and homework. The variations he is able to generate through his programs mean the students never get tired of the activity. It is surprising to see the interest they show in doing dictation using the cards he produces. 


In addition to his cloze exercise cards, he has in the past developed an email penpals web site and a jigsaw quiz web site for his students. He is now apparently working on a swiss tournament program for them. 


This, finally, is his most memorable characteristic. His collegiality, his friendliness, his openness. It has been a pleasure, indeed an honor, to call him a colleague and a friend. 


I cannot recommend Greg Matheson to you highly enough. He is truly an exceptional teacher. 





