I asked 3 questions:

a. Was Gem 
http://misadventuresintaiwan.gemismyname.com/old/about.html
href=http://misadventuresintaiwan.wordpress.com
Taiwanese, American (or ABC)?

b. Are there differences in communication styles between Americans and
Taiwanese? Are Americans more direct and Taiwanese (and Asians in general) more
indirect? See the discussion on pp 65-70 of directness/indirectness in
conversation styles in Levine and Adelman's Beyond Culture.

c. Why don't my students speak up more in class?

During the whole-class discussion (it was more like a presentation of reports
from the discussion in each group) Kimmy and Andrew said that the Taiwanese
education system did not encourage students to be vocal in class.

I think there was a change from similarly silent classes in the West to classes
where students are expected to contribute to whole class discussion. Why did
this change take place?

Then I read Anna Wierzbicka's 6.1. The Cultural Elaboration of Causation
http://http://www.oxfordscholarship.com/oso/private/content/linguistics/9780195174748/p045.html#acprof-9780195174748-chapter-6)
from her book: Meaning and culture (2006) (probably only accessible from inside
NUU). 

It explains the difference between 'have the students leave early' and 'let the
students leave early' very well.

She also says:

   The cultural emphasis on personal autonomy, characteristic of modern
   Anglo society and reflected in many ways in modern English (see, e.g.,
   Wierzbicka 1991/2003a, 1996a), is no doubt closely related
   to the expansion of causative constructions in modern English, as is
   also the marked emphasis on the need for voluntary cooperation among
   equals (see Fukuyama 1995). In a large-scale society, where service
   encounters have come to occupy a vital role in everyday life and where
   people are acutely aware of their right to, and need for, personal
   autonomy, the nuances of causation assume an extraordinary importance.
   For example, if I am working in a service profession (say, waiting
   tables or driving a taxi), my livelihood depends on my willingness to
   do what other people want me to do (and to do it because they say they
   want me to do it), but the relationship with my customers has to be
   negotiated in such a way that I don't abrogate my personal autonomy in
   the process. I am willing to “serve” my customers, but I am not willing
   to treat them as my superiors. If I am working in an institution such
   as a university or in public administration, I may well have “bosses,”
   “superiors,” or “heads of department,” whose will I may have to bow to
   on an everyday basis. But if I am a modern Anglo person, I will not
   want to abrogate my personal autonomy because of this, and I will
   follow my bosses' will only in a context that ensures the recognition
   of both my autonomy and my essential “equality” with them. Even in the
   realm of family interaction, it has become crucial in the modern Anglo
   world that parental authority has to be exercised, and indeed conceived
   of, in ways that are consistent with the children's right to, and need
   for, personal autonomy.

She also talks about 'whimperatives', ie wimpy imperatives using WH-words, ways
of giving orders, while being polite, eg 'Can you get me some water?'
 
Use of whimperatives and change in the English causatives is due to people's
wish to give others personal autonomy. Although it is difficult, teachers,
parents and army officers (probably) want to treat the people they are
responsible for in the same way, They want to give them personal autonomy too.

So, I think there may be a cultural difference. I think American/British
teachers are interested in trying to avoid oppressing their students.

