Moving on to our topic of the week. What is culture shock? XXXX

I used a couple of sources, as you'll see in the show notes.

Um, I like some of the things that are discussed here:

It's the impact of moving from a familiar culture to an unfamiliar one.

Or, it's the anxiety that results from losing all familiar sounds and symbols of social intercourse.

Uh, it describes the anxiety and feelings of surprise, disorientation, confusion, et cetera, felt when people move to operate, and when people have to operate within an, an entirely different cultural or social environment, such as a different cult.. country.

Kalvero Oberg was the.. is commonly credited with, with coining the phrase, culture shock. He wrote in 1958 about culture shock. And he found that it is almost like a disease. It has a cause. It has symptoms, and it has a cure.

The main idea, or, or my take on culture shock is, basically, that you move from one culture, or one environment to a new environment. Some people say, it's like that when you move from one state to another state in the USA, or from one province to another province.

Mostly, I'm talking about culture shock moving from one country to a new     country. And you lose all your social cue, cues. All the ideas you had, ways of interacting with people.

Even if the, the language is the same, there's, there's different body language. There's different values and norms and different ways of doing things. Even things that might seem the same are different. Hand gestures are different. And some countries, you might, er, use one very, er, vulgar hand sign and in another country it might be acceptable, or a way of greeting, or saying good luck famously. 

So, there's a lot of different things that contribute to it, but it's basically the idea that, and I've had this before (I've traveled extensively). And I've had this before: When you arrive in a new country and you initially, it's cool, or whatever. But after a while, you get struck by feelings of depression and loneliness, or whatever.

And it's that, you're taken out of your own environment, out of where you are safe, and you feel .. safe, and uh, uh, uh, secure, basically. And now suddenly, you're, you're ... the ground has been taken from underneath you. 

You don't know how to, how things work necessarily. You don't know where to ...
