I told Polly, Annie, Roy and Edith that 臭豆腐 smells like an old shoe. Roy said that in Taiwan, people think cheese 
smells terrible. Suddenly, I realized my food preferences were not Taiwanese-like. I realized the smells I 
smelled were not the same as the smells they smelled.

At the same time, I realized Roy was a competent intercultural communicator. He was able to *interpret* my ideas 
about 臭豆腐 in the same way that Taiwanese people think about cheese. This interpretation is the third type of 
intercultural competence as described by Byram. (See the link in the Intercultural Competence entry on the 
Curriculum Content page)

Now I want you to do the same thing for Eunice, Frank and me that Roy did for me.

Eunice:

Last week Eunice talked about the excitement of learning Taiwanese when she started working in a coffee shop and people 
there using Taiwanese to send her the message that she was not a member of their in-group.

She also talked about pretending to be Taiwanese with a business contact over the telephone, and the person telling her she wasn't Taiwanese 
but that her Taiwanese conversation was interesting.

Frank:

Frank talked about a dinner party with his in-laws where he tried to use a lot of Taiwanese and be a lively 
participant, and where, after, he learned that his father- and mother-in-law hadn't appreciated his efforts to 
use Taiwanese.

Dr Bean:

Last week I had an experience where 4 students came to talk to me, but instead of talking to me, they were talking to 
each other in Chinese. I don't know what they were talking about. I thought they were rude, impolite and annoying. I sometimes 
have this feeling, and sometimes I don't have the feeling when students talk in Chinese. I don't know why this is so.

After a while, however, I started to mind their speaking in Chinese to each other less. I also tried to think what 
they were talking about.

Evaluate Eunice, Frank and my intercultural competence. Although we are competent in some respects, in others, we are 
less competent.

I talked with John Sewell, the black guy I know in the US about your essays about multiculturalism and 
multilingualism in the US. He said that Asian thinking on such issues is black-and-white, that is, no gray. He 
means that it is unbalanced and too simple.

	"I have noticed that Asians, tend to express their political opinions in a rather monolithic way. It is 
	either "very good" or very bad -- they don't use "on the other hand" kind of statements much.

	"It is funny, because Americans  (or Westerners) tend to have that [絕對論者] attitude when they discuss religion. 
	Asians flip the script by being very accommodating of diverging views [ie 相對論者] when it comes to religion  and philosopy.

	"I have many friends from the PRC who, for example, speak of the PRC government as being either oppressive or 
	free ; few are willing to say that it is essentially a totalitarian system with many concessions to 
	individual and economic freedom (which is a middle-of-the-road kind of description).

I agree. In your essays, try to be balanced. Point out good things *and* bad things. And discuss all *five* of 
Byram's intercultural competences. The five competences are very important. If you don't mention them, you can't get 
a good grade.

Talk about culture shock too.

This is an open-book exam. You can talk to Roy, Eunice, Frank and me. Use expressions like, 'On the other hand,' 
and 'although.'

And remember, ethnocentrism is NOT the attitude, 'My culture is better than your culture.' Ethnocentrism is BEING SURPRISED when 
the person from the OTHER culture says things like, 'My culture is better.' We're talking about INTERCULTURAL COMMUNICATION, not CULTURE 
THEORY.

non-Taiwanese people are not ethnocentric if they don't like the smell of 臭豆腐. And Taiwanese people are not 
ethnocentric if they think cheese has a bad smell.

They ARE ethnocentric if they can't understand why, or are surprised when, someone from another culture doesn't think the 
same way about their culture that they do.
