
Before remodeling
The colorful floral wall at the entrance leads customers into the most beautiful world of fabrics.
The vivid colors enrich the monotone staircase.
Simple and fashionable product display stands and the introduction and history of the brand MeiGa.
Organized product display cabinets make each Hakka fabric product a fine one.
The meeting and DIY area.
Inside the retro building are heritage sewing machines, which also represent a combination o tradition and modernity, reminiscence and innovation. 
The distinct fabric products on display enable customers to enjoy the shopping experience.

Before remodeling
The counter made of wood and red brick conveys the simplicity of an agricultural village.
The brick wall, cement, and wood bring the customer closer to nature.
Persimmon-dyed works present the favorable winds of September and the sultry sun, the most important elements in the production of persimmon cakes.
Customers can take their meals from the bar area and enjoy them at the long reception table.
The transparent process helps assure the quality of the persimmon cakes.
There is consistent use of colors and materials on the walls and display stands throughout the area.
The pictures illustrate how a persimmon grows from a seed to a fruit.

Before remodeling
The wooden railings of the external wall are designed to resemble noodles.
The wooden sliding door is symbolic of the hundred-year-old style that was effected here during the Japanese colonial period.
Centennial noodle production techniques are vividly presented with the assistance of the production flowchart. It is particularly useful for educational purposes.
The main visual image of the brand is communicated through lighting and three dimensional technology.
The wall introducing the history of the Jinruizhen Shop and its products.
Product display cabinets and theme exhibition areas
The exclusive employee uniforms carry the unique totemic logo of the shop.
Recipes for different flour-based foods are designed and prepared as gifts for consumers.

Before remodeling
The eye-catching billboard outside the shop.
The hollow backlit presentation of the brand gives the presentation a certain texture.
Outside the shop is a pebble-paved landscape.
Brand story image wall.
Products are displayed in a neat line. 
The long table in the center is meant for interactive work and DIY activities.
The simple yet bright display cabinets by the window help attract the attention of passers-by.
Systematic brand restructuring and standard design

Before remodeling
DIY and video area.
Cashier's desk.
The product display cabinets are of a unique design.
The cabinets are tailored for the products they display.
The spaciousness of the shop lets customers browse and shop freely.
The new space leads you to experience the charm of tea oil.
Systematic brand restructuring and standard design.

Before remodeling
The exterior features a large wall that helps build a brand image.
Elements such as jars of cured vegetables and Hakka fabrics are introduced into the brand history area to create a historic imprint in the minds of consumers.
The audio-visual illustration equipment adds to customers' knowledge of how vegetables are cured and pickled.
The round display cabinets can be rotated 180 degrees.
The multi-functional product display stands may be adjusted to fit the display room based on each product's packaging and style.      
The display stands are designed with hooks to clearly display products packaged in different styles.      
Customers will enjoy bottling their own pickled vegetables.      
The jars of cured vegetables are reminiscent of childhood in the countryside.      

Before remodeling      
The exterior is in a retro design with warm colors and wooden materials as the basic modeling elements.      
12 tips for producing fermented tofu are clearly illustrated through graphics and text.      
Display and sale area for characteristic products.      
Products and ceramic jars are combined to attract customers with their bright visual effects.      
Brand history is presented through multi-media videos and the DIY area. Even the chairs are made to resemble tofu.      
History of Kuo Ku Chuang Pickle Garden and product display.      
The cashier's desk is designed as a tofu-like block. Along with the logo wall in the back, it gives customers a deeper impression of the brand.

Before remodeling       
The main visual effects of the external wall show the 100-year history of camphor production.       
At the entrance is piled up small and large pieces of camphor wood, which serves as a reminder to customers of the visual and olfactory journey that they are about to begin in the world of camphor.       
Introduction to camphor production during the Qing Dynasty and Japanese colonial period.      
Early camphor production tools.      
These early tools are proof of the wisdom of our predecessors.      
Introduction to cultural and creative camphor products.      
Camphor wood slicing is one of the important steps in camphor production.      
Display area for characteristic products.      
Puppet DIY area.      
Wooden puppet display area.      

Before remodeling      
The exterior of the building clearly gives the name of the building—&quot;Hakka Grandma's Brewing Workshop.&quot;      
Road pavement improvement and movement planning      
Shipping and packaging/processing area.      
Exhibition/display cabinets and counters.      
Exhibition display cabinets.      
Introduction to the history of the Hakka Grandma's brand.      
Eye-catching guidance system.      

Before remodeling      
Environment Indication System.      
Product display and exhibition cabinets.      
Product display stands and movement guide.      
The DIY Classroom and Educational Center.      
Noni Introduction Area.      
The counters incorporating the brand identification system will leave customers with a deep impression.      
Exhibition of Hakka cultural relics.      
The bamboo-woven lamps are particularly retro and reminiscent of earlier days.      
Systematic brand restructuring and standard design.
