Foreword
In legends, there are explanations of many traditions and customs in Hakka society whose origins nobody knew. Actually, many interesting stories were told this way.
"
" Goals of the lesson:
Are these stories real or not? Or were they created simply because people at that time needed an explanation? Nobody cares… They have already become an essential part of Hakka culture and I, the flying angel will be the messenger passing along this important cultural tradition to children.  
"
Hence, I hope you will listen to all these stories carefully. I am pretty sure you will be interested when I tell you the legendary stories behind some traditional customs. 
 If you are amused, I hope you can share what you have learned with more people who also have the same passion for Hakka culture like me.
"Introduction:
What are these interesting traditions and customs?
"
I think you must have always wondered: Where did humans come from? Why did Nuwa need to fix the sky? How does a chicken talk? Why can’t you stick chopsticks on the stove?  Why can't we eat meat on the first day of Chinese New Year? And, how come monkeys have red butts? 
So many questions? Which one would you like know the answer to first? Feel free to choose the lesson by clicking on the list on the left side.
"Introduction to the lecturer:
We would like to give our thanks to Mr. Ho, Shih-Sung for collecting these interesting stories from ancient times.
"
 Mr. Ho currently serves as Associate Professor at Hsin Sheng Junior College of Medical Care and Management. He has edited the “Hakka Thesaurus”, “100 Hakka Slang Expressions”, “200 Hakka Slang Expressions”, and “Hakka Puzzles.”
If you are a regular visitor to Hakka e-learning center, you must have seen the lesson, “Let’s chat” which is also his work.
 Where did humans come from?
There is one story that man was made by God and woman was created from one of the ribs of man.
However, China has another story, saying that humans were made by a woman, known as the famous Goddess Nuwa.
In the legend, she has a human head with a snake body. She is very beautiful and light. She can fly and walk and never get old. Some people said the reason she never ages is because she has Goddess power.
Moreover, she can take on 70 kinds of looks in a day just like a magician. This is so amazing. It’s even better than Sun-Wu-Kong.
One day, she felt bored and thought there were no people in this world other than her brother Fu Yi. So, she wanted to make more people just like her. She started to take a piece of mud and mold it like a human. Suddenly, the mud began to move.
Ha, she also made a chicken to walk around her. Now she was amused. The next day, she started to make a dog, and the third day a pig. Later on, she made a sheep, a cow, a horse in the following few days.
On the seventh day which was the most important day, she made a human who had a face, looking just like hers. This day is called “The day of the human,” which is also the 7th of January.
Have you noticed that dogs and chickens came to Earth earlier than humans in this story and they were also made by a woman?  The world started to become lively because so many people and animals were there.
Humans finally were brought into being by Goddess Nuwa with mud. No wonder everyone says that “Mud is the mother of everything.”
Thereafter, we would say “Back to nature,” which means returning to the earth when people pass away. We also say “To be immense as the East Sea,” which is also related to mud. It is truly amazing!
You must imagine Nuwa would have made other things in the next few days. However, she felt tired after making humans, so she stopped.  
So this important “Day of Humans” became the day that humans were born. Therefore, every year on the 7th of January, people will treat the day as a new beginning. For example, there are 7 days in a week, Christians will go to church every Sunday, and Buddhists will do the 7 days ceremony after people die. There is always a 7 in every cycle. You see, different cultures have their common points as well.
 In addition, January 7th is the day when Niou-Lang and Chih-Niu meet. This ”7” means vitality here. Moreover, on the day of January 7th, people used to eat the 7 particular dishes for more intelligence. Ha, it is cute that the number “7” represents so many things at one time.
Of course, Goddess Nuwa was not feeling bored anymore after she made chickens, dogs, pigs and humans and the world became lively. They respect and love each other. For this reason, there were more and more creatures being born.
Isn’t this a fascinating story? Next time when someone asks you where did humans come from, I hope you can remember and can tell them the story of Goddess Nuwa.
 Do you still remember Goddess Nuwa? She was busy making people and fixing the sky later. Do you know why?
 Back then…Because there were too many people, things became complicated and people fought with each other, each one wanting to be the king. 
 The famous Gung Kung Shih (Kang-Huei) and Juan-Shiu were fighting to be king.
 Gung Kung Shih used his horn to stab Bujou Mountain and broke the sky column. And he also lacerated the sky and caused some unknown objects to continue to fall, which also resulted in serious thunderstorm and the killing of so many people.
 He also stepped too hard on the ground, making groundwater well up and flood the land. Many people died because of this. 
 Goddess Nuwa saw this tragedy and felt very sad.
 So she started to fix the sky with five-color stone. Finally, the sky was all fixed up, and the flooding was stopped too. Beautiful weather returned and saved numerous lives.
 People were so grateful for her help. In order to worship her, they would prepare tributes to remember this “sky fixing day.” You can still see this custom today! Even for Hakka people who constantly migrate, they still remember to follow this tradition to this day.
 Goddess Nuwa is known as Jiou Tian Shiuan Niu. Most of the Hakka temples still worship her and there are still many temples, such as Bu Tian Temple in Ilan, whose major object of worship is this Goddess.
 It is such a pity that at some of these temples you can hardly hear the Hakka language anymore because “the number of Hakka people is less than Taiwanese.” Hakka people are gradually integrating with Taiwanese and they rarely speak Hakka anymore. This is like a pestilence slowly damaging the Hakka. Hakka will soon lose their traditions, if they do not pay attention toward this issue.
 Back to the story, the day when Nuwa fixed the sky was January 20th, which is called Sky Fixing Day as a result.
 On the morning of Sky Fixing Day, every household will prepare sweet rice cake which is also called New Year Cake for worshipping the Goddess. The sweet rice cake will be made in a flat shape in case they need to help fix the sky. So the cake is also known as “Sky fixer.”
 After worshiping, people will have a day off to have fun. On this day off, men will not plow the fields because they are afraid of causing a flood. Women will stop spinning to avoid breaking the sky again. They all understand the sacrifice, knowing that if anything ruins the beautiful weather, all their work will be wasted. 
 As the proverb says: “If the sky breaks again, we will all die,” and “If the sky breaks again, we will be in deep trouble.” So why not have a day off and have some fun instead?  This is the best Hakka Women's Day and also the earliest example of a weekend break system.
 This custom of making sweet rice cake to help Goddess Nuwa is one kind of worship of women. This is the very cutting-edge idea of sexual equality and respect for women. You can clearly see Hakka’s straight-forward attitude and their respect for traditional culture here.
Moreover, on Sky Fixing Day, there are several places holding singing competitions, especially the one in Zhudong Township, Hsinchu County. They have been holding this competition for over 40 years. Singers come from everywhere with the youngest participant being 4 years old and the oldest participant 90 years old. Why not take a visit there next time on Sky Fixing Day?
 “The sky breaks easily, so we have to focus on our work.  It does not matter whether we can make money or not, because we love to talk about the sky breaking story.” “Doing something or not, we chat until the sky breaks. Make money or not, we love to talk about the sky breaking story.”
 This is the old story of Nuwa fixing the sky. Does your family still have this special tradition?
 Do you see these two chickens? Do you understand what they are saying?
 It was said that the chickens Nuwa made were totally different from the ones we see now. They were very beautiful creatures with two horns on their head. They were so beautiful you couldn’t stop looking at them.
 At that time, dragons lived on the Earth with humans. One day, a dragon tried to fly but he couldn’t make it because he did not have horns.  So guess what the dragon did.
 That’s right. The dragon wanted to borrow the two beautiful horns of the chicken.
 He was very smart, because he knew the chicken and centipede were good friends. In order to get the chicken's trust, he asked the centipede to be his guarantor. Of course, the centipede agreed to help and went to talk to the chicken.
 The centipede said: “The dragon wants to fly, so can you lend your horns to him?”
 The friendly chicken also said yes without thinking. But he asked: “What if the dragon does not come back?”
 In order to calm the chicken down, the centipede said: ”Don’t worry, you only need to shout to the sky, “Give my horns back” three times before dawn, the dragon will give them back to you.” 
 But the thing the chicken worried about the most still happened. The dragon disappeared.
 So the chicken went to the centipede but the centipede still said the same thing: ”You just shout to the sky three times, I believe the dragon will come back soon.”
The chicken did the same thing every morning “Give my horns back! Give my horns back!” but the dragon still did not come back.
 In the end, the chicken realized he was fooled and felt angry. Thereafter, he told his children: ”The centipede lied to me, so remember to bite him every time when you see him.” 
 Of course, the chicken is still looking for his horns and continues to shout to the sky, “Give my horns back! Give my horns back!” And his wife also shouts together, “Horn, horn, horn” to this day.
So now you know what are they saying (Guo Guo Guo) right now? Haha…That’s right, they are talking Hakka. 
At dinner time or Chinese New Year, kids look forward to many delicious dishes and stand drooling beside the stove. Do you know why our grandmas or mothers will tell us at that time not to stick chopsticks into the stove or table?  
 Oh…it is because they believe sticking chopsticks into the table or stove will bring bad luck. But why? Let me tell you another story.
 There was a man called Lo, Yin. He was told that he was destined to be the king someday in the future.
 His mother heard the prediction and became very arrogant about her son.
 Every time when she cooked in the kitchen, she would take the chopsticks, bring their points down on the stove and say: “My son will be the king someday, and I will ask him to kill a man for me.” “My son will be the king someday, and I will ask him to put a man in prison for me.” “My son will be the king someday, and I will ask him to….” She always imagined killing or torturing someone if her son was king in the future.
 Every time when she finished talking, she would stab the stove heavily with her chopsticks. One time, she accidentally stabbed the God of Stove’s feet.
 The God was hurt and yelled, “Who disturbs me?” After he listened carefully, he realized it was the future king’s mother. And he noticed that she wanted to only kill or torture people.
 No way could he let this person’s son be the king. He had to change Lo, Yin's future destiny.
 Hence, he contacted the Emperor of God and told him the entire story. Finally, the Emperor agreed.
 The Emperor of God sent many soldiers and generals to Earth to cancel Lo, Yin’s qualifications.
 But they took too much time to get there and it was near dawn when they arrived.
 Time had almost run out there, so they had to leave. In legends, Gods need to leave the Earth before dawn because they don’t want people to see them. Although, they couldn’t finish all their work, they successfully canceled his qualifications to be king.
 Of course, Lo, Yin failed to become king. I think you should know the reason now. That’s right. It was because of his mother. So the expression, “Lo Yin Jie A Mu” means talking nonsense. And the reason why we can’t bring the ends of our chopsticks down on the stove comes from this story too. 
 So, never stab the stove with your chopsticks, it will probably cost you your good fortune. For sure, do not stick your pen into the table; it will probably cost you your luck too.  And, the expression, “Lo Yin Jie A Mu” means talking nonsense.
It has become most people’s habit to be one-day vegetarians during January 1st and 15th. But do you know why?
 There is one expression in Hakka: “I was treated worse than a dog, so I would rather be a monk than your father.” Can you understand this? It is actually a kind of sarcastic remark, treating bitterness as a delicacy.
 This expression comes from a father who thought he was treated like a dog for not being invited to his children's celebrations on New Year's Eve.
 Having been treated like a dog. he was sad and decided to become a monk and devote himself to Buddha. His decision left all his children filled with regret. You must want to know why he would be like this and make this decision.
 become a monk and devote himself to Buddha. His decision left all his children filled with regret. You must want to know why he would be like this and make this decision.
 There was a family with five brothers and they lived separately. But their father lived alone. According to custom, children should invite their parents to dinner on New Year’s Eve.
 However, the eldest brother was busy and he thought the second brother would invite their father. But the second brother thought the third brother would invite their father and so did the fourth brother and also the youngest one. Therefore, nobody invited their father for family dinner on that night.
The father was left alone and said: ”I am alone at my old house. I was looking forward to having dinner with my family but no one is coming. Facing a cold meal and lonely air, the sound of insects, and firecrackers across the street, I wait and wait but no one is coming.” In the evening, he saw his grandsons running to his place and he thought they were coming to invite him to dinner. But they just played around and still no one said anything.
 He felt it was weird and asked: “Grandchildren, have you eaten yet?”
 All the children said together: “Of course, we have eaten and even our dog is full.”
He was shocked and felt really sorry. The presents that he was going to give them slid from his hands because of disappointment.
He closed the door after they left and went to bed directly, but he couldn’t fall asleep.  
After a few hours thinking, he saw a temple standing in front of his house and heard bells clearly.  Finally, he made the decision to leave his family and become a monk.
The next morning, his children suddenly thought about their father and went to visit him. However, he had already left. They couldn’t find him and didn’t know where he had gone.
 At last, they saw a note on the table, which said: “I have been treated worse than a dog, so I would rather be a monk than your father.” And also: “Now I believe the saying that says the poorest people are those who have the most money.  And the poorest man is the one who has so many children but still goes hungry.” All the children felt terrible regret and sorrow after seeing this note.
After a few day's looking, they still couldn’t find their father. In order to repent, they decided not to eat any meat on January 1 every year from then on. Because of the influence of this story, other people started to follow this tradition as well.
The Chinese emphasize family values very much, especially during Chinese New Year. New Year’s Eve is even more important for it is the day that the family can get together and have a lovely meal. Children will receive some red envelopes with money inside and will play with firecrackers. Young people should visit their parents and the elderly can have some family time, giving everybody the chance to bond with their families.   
However, everything is not always the way it should be. When some families are having fun on New Year’s Eve, some people are just by themselves and feel lonely.  
 I think you can't have thought the red butt of the monkey is related to discord between a mother-in-law and her daughter-in-law, right? But, it is. Why? Let me tell you this story.
 Once upon a time, there was a mother-in-law who hated her son’s wife with a passion. She always gave her the cold shoulder and deliberately told her to do lots of unpleasant housework. She would ask her to gather firewood from woods or fetch water from wells far away.
One day, the wife was going to fetch water in a well. She felt so sad, she started to cry on the way to the well.  
 When she put down the bucket, an old man walked up to her. 
 "“Why do you cry, lady?” The old man asked.
 “Because I am ugly, my mother-in-law hates me and she always says bad things to me.  I feel so upset, so I cry.” The wife answered in tears. 
 "
  The old man gave her two flowers after hearing the story.
  He made some gestures and spat on her face. Suddenly, she turned into a very beautiful woman. She looked at her reflection in the water in the well and felt so happy. But, when she tried to say thanks to the old man, he had already gone.
  The wife came home gladly. Her mother-in-law was surprised and asked: “How did you become so beautiful?” So the wife told her everything.
  So the wife told her everything.
  Her mother-in-law wanted to be beautiful as well, so she took a bucket, rushed to the well and pretended to cry. She hoped she could meet the old man as well.
  As expected, the old man was there by the well.
  The old man asked her, “Why do you cry, madam?” The mother-in-law told the same story as her son’s wife and continued crying.
  The old man also took two flowers and made some gestures. Now, what do you think she would look like? Suddenly she became a monkey.
  From that day, she was afraid to go home and became homeless. When she felt hungry, she would sneak back home and steal the food on the stove.
  The wife didn’t know what to do about it, so she asked the old man again. He taught her to put a burning brick on the stove. If she returned again and accidently sat on the brick, she would stop stealing the food.
  As she expected, the mother-in-law returned again.
 She saw the food on the stove and jumped on it. All of a sudden, she sat on the burning brick because she thought it was a stool. She screamed and her butt became red. Finally she ran away.    
 From then on, the red-butt monkey never went home again. Now you must realize the reason why monkeys have red butts now!

