臺六線24公里處正是傳統臺灣客家的紅棗發源地，鮮活農產公司以24K為名，創造「棗道24K」品牌。在陽光充足、水質清淨的客鄉土壤健康、健壯成長的紅棗，手工採收後，經篩選、清洗及表皮烘乾，並接受7至10天日光照射，製成棗香滿意的豔紅果乾。
The exact area of origin of traditional Taiwanese Hakka red dates can be precisely tracked to the 24 km marker along Taiwan Route 6, which is how Fresh Produce named this brand "Date 24K". The healthy and strong red dates are grown in the Hakka soil with sufficient sunlight exposure and pure water. Manually harvested red dates go through screening, cleaning, surface drying procedures before they are exposed in the sun for seven to ten days and become fragrant dried dates.
鮮活農產公司採擷成熟的新鮮紅棗，經過清洗及低溫乾燥後，再以慢火熬煮7至8小時，待果肉及湯汁完全融合並濃縮後，再加入臺東有機老薑母，以及柴燒麥芽糖更增添紅棗香甜，不論是以熱水調和或加入溫熱鮮奶飲用，皆是寒冬最佳去寒飲品。
Fresh Produce harvests fresh ripe red dates, cleans and dries them at a low temperature, and then simmers them for seven to eight hours. As soon as the pulp and the soup completely bind together and are concentrated, organic old ginger from Taitung is added. Wood-fried maltose, on the other hand, increases the fragrance and sweetness of the dates. With hot water or tepid warm fresh milk, it becomes an optimal drink in a cold winter. 
早期客家人大多分布於苗栗與新竹山區，且以務農居多，因工作體力消耗大，所以常以自製粢粑作為三餐間之點心食用。本產品包裝以粢粑的白加入藍衫的藍為設計，內盒更以粢粑彷彿躺臥油桐花中之意象呈現，將客家傳統美食帶入唯美境界。
In the early days Hakka people inhabited mostly mountain areas in Miaoli and Hsinchu and most of them made a living by agriculture. Because of the strenuous nature of agricultural activities, they often prepared homemade qi ba to be their snacks between meals. The products come in a white (the color of the qi ba) and blue (the color of the blue shirt) package. The inner box, moreover, is designed to symbolize qi ba lying in the midst of paulownia flowers. Both are meant to create a sense of aesthetics for the traditional Hakka delicacy. 
胼手胝足的東生伯於1894年在苗栗銅鑼興隆村創業，迄今已開枝散葉延續4代，傳承正統客家風味並不斷求進步，本產品是嚴選芥菜特製成梅干菜後，拌入新鮮豬前腿肉餡並調味，再以大火蒸煮，將客家菜的鹹、香、甘完全融入在蒸肉中。
Mr. Dongsheng started his business from scratch in Xinglong Village, Tongluo, Miaoli in 1894. It is run by the fourth generation now. While keeping the traditional authentic Hakka style, the successors have been constantly seeking improvements. This product features fresh front leg ground pork mixed in pickled select mustard cabbage with proper seasonings before the mixture is steamed over a large fire so that the saltiness, fragrance, and sweetness of the Hakka cuisine completely penetrate the steamed pork. 
五雲養生坊秉持客家惜福與順天調養的理念，將有平民人蔘之稱的菜脯，以獨門客家製醬工法醃漬天然、低鹽及無防腐劑的菜脯，並堅持嚴選友善環境種植之食材，支持在地農業，讓消費者吃得安心與健康。
Natural Ingredients uses exclusive Hakka paste to cure natural, low-salt, and preservative-free radish, a vegetable reputed to be the affordable ginseng, following the Hakka belief in cherishing what you have and preserving health in compliance with nature. Only food ingredients grown in a friendly environment are selected in order to support local agriculture and present consumers with safe and healthy products. 
本產品遵循客家傳統手工醃製方式，將冬季盛產採收之芥菜，僅靠粗鹽、陽光及天然生成的乳酸菌製成，並經自然發酵熟成及多道手續後，才能完成充滿自然香氣的客家酸菜，也是樸實勤儉的客家人，在艱辛環境下歷練出不凡的生活智慧。
This product is prepared applying the traditional Hakka manual curing technique. Seasonal mustard cabbages are harvested in winter and cured with only rock salt, sunlight exposure, and natural lactic acid bacteria. After fermentation, maturation, and other multiple procedures, the naturally fragrant Hakka pickled mustard cabbage is ready. This is also the product of the extraordinary living wisdom of simple, frugal, and wise Hakka people in a difficult environment. 
維穀力企業商行獨家研製的養生多穀擂茶粉，結合客家傳統與現代養生保健的精華，更富有鈣的成分，口感清爽、香濃無負擔，為新世代養生新選擇，更期望客家傳統美食能讓更多年輕人接受及喜愛。
The healthy grains-based punched tea developed exclusively by Powerful Grains combines traditional Hakka and modern health-preserving elements with the addition of calcium. It has a refreshing texture and a burden-free thick flavor and is hence a novel health-preserving choice for the new generation. The ultimate hope is that more young people will accept and love traditional Hakka delicacies. 
双霖茶莊傳承家族務實的客家精神，致力於優化傳統高山茶，帶著高山茶製作技術，協同楊梅茶葉產銷班，在結合南北不同製茶方法下，將茶葉的香氣與喉韻更加釋放，使臺灣的茶香文化散播到各地。
Shuanglin Tea House follows the practical Hakka spirit of the family and has been devoted to optimizing traditional mountain tea. Equipped with the existing mountain tea production technique, it further joins efforts with the Yangmei Tea Production and Distribution Class to combine the different tea production techniques from the northern and southern parts of Taiwan and give the fragrance and texture of tea leaves an additional lift. The ultimate goal is to spread the tea culture from Taiwan to other parts of the world. 
益康美食館致力於客家鹹豬肉研發及製作。將豬肉醃漬並調味後，再經烘烤成為熟食，食用前只需稍微加熱，就能成為一道具客家特色風味的佳餚，目前已研發蒜味、辣味及黑胡椒3種口味供消費者選擇。
Yikang is devoted to the research, development, and production of Hakka salted pork. After pork is cured and seasoned, it is baked into ready-to-serve food. Before eating, one only has to heat it up a little bit. It will then become a characteristic Hakka delicacy. There are three flavors available for consumers to choose from, namely garlic, chili pepper, and black pepper. 
坐落於桃園縣龍潭鄉的義和茶葉，取名意涵期子孫們遵守義理與和平，製茶技術迄今已傳承4代，身為客家子弟的老闆，堅持自家栽培、管理、生產及製造的一條龍方式，本產品以人工採摘春季優質茶菁精製而成，象徵客家堅持優良的精神。
Yihe Tea is located in Longtan Township, Taoyuan County. The name was chosen in the hopes that the next generation of sons and daughters will abide by the principles of justice and peace (yi and he in Mandarin Chinese). It is now the fourth generation since the tea production technique was initiated. A Hakka descendant, the boss insists on taking care of the cultivation, management, production, and manufacturing on his own. The product is made of quality tea plucked manually in spring and symbolic of the Hakka spirit to adhere to best quality. 
義和茶葉，取名意涵期子孫們遵守義理與和平，製茶技術迄今已傳承四代，一心製作最好、高品質的茶，期望全世界都能喝到臺灣在地客家庄種植的茶葉。
Yihe Tea, which was named in the hopes that the next generation of sons and daughters will abide by the principles of justice and peace (yi and he in Mandarin Chinese), is now in its fourth generation since the tea production technique was first initiated. Devoted to producing best quality tea, Yihe hopes that tea leaves grown in local Hakka villages in Taiwan will one day be available to people around the world. 
伯公岡客家美食工作坊是以桃園楊梅市客家村莊富岡舊名為名，主要致力於客家米食文化推廣。牛搵水又名漉湯粢，因形狀與牛隻在池塘裡打滾模樣相似故有此名，本產品更與艾草融合，使傳統更兼具養生。
Bogonggang Hakka Delicacy Store is named after the old name of Fugang, a Hakka village in Yangmei City, Taoyuan and is devoted primarily to the promotion of Hakka rice products. Niu Wenshui is also known as Lutangqi (qi ba and soup). The name was given because of the shapes of the glutinous rice pastries in the soup resembling cows rolling about in a pond. This product is mugwort-flavored. It is both traditional and conducive to health. 
老周食品以健康為導向，秉持天然信念及嚴謹繁複製法醃漬客家紅糟鴨，除保留最真實紅糟自然原味，彈嫩的鴨肉伴隨著肉香及酒香，淺嘗一口，彷彿置身於客家小鎮的經典風味。
Mr. Zhou's Food Store is devoted to providing healthy dietary options. The Hakka red yeast rice-braised duck is cured carefully through complex procedures out of the belief in nature. Besides preserving the truest natural flavor of red yeast rice, the tender and chewy meat carries the fragrance of both the meat itself and the wine. A small bite will make the eater feel like he/she were in a Hakka town. 
蜜王養蜂園為尋找各地蜜粉與花香，以游牧方式南北遷徙採集蜂蜜，為維持蜂蜜品質，堅持無加工的天然純粹，蜂蜜中高葡萄糖含量，更析出珍貴結晶蜜。龍眼蜜、荔枝蜜及咸豐草蜜等琥珀色的幸福，請您品嘗。
To search for pollen and fragrant flowers, Honey King Apiary migrates between the north and the south to collect honey. To maintain quality, its honey is naturally extracted without processing. The high glucose content of its honey is crystalline. Come and taste the amber blessings of Longan Honey, Lychee Honey, and Biden Honey.
阿娟姐將自己栽植的芥菜，曬足陽光軟化後，從頭到尾以鹽巴抹遍，再經過醃漬調理後，送進冰箱繼續醃漬入味，就成了美味的客家鹹菜。本產品不管是種植、製作、管理及出貨，都由阿娟姐親自把關，也成為行家指定選購的美味客家食材。
Sister Ahjuan dries the mustard cabbage that she grows in sunlight till it becomes soft before applying salt all over. The cured and seasoned mustard cabbage is then placed inside the refrigerator for continuous curing. This is how the delicious Hakka-style salted mustard cabbage is made. Sister Ahjuan controls the plantation, production, management, and shipment in person. This product has become a must-buy Hakka delicacy ingredient for experts.
源鄉餅行將艾草分別融合梅干菜、福菜，並以鳳梨酥為發想，製作創新客家風味西式糕點，除提升客家鹹菜附加價值，也可隨時品嘗艾草酥的美味，以滿足口腹之慾，成為傳統與現代兼具之糕點。
Yuan Siang combines mugwort with pickled mustard cabbage and pickled vegetables, respectively, and produces the innovative Hakka style pastry resembling pineapple cakes. It not only boosts the value added to Hakka salted mustard cabbage but also enables consumers to taste the delicious final product, the mugwort cake, and feel satisfied. It is both a traditional and modern pastry. 
噹好吃鹹豬肉以新鮮客家黑豬肉，切片醃製並火烤後封裝，更為因應現代人飲食習慣及口味的改變，特別將傳統鹹度調淡，既保留客家鹹豬肉特色美味，更具健康養生概念。
Delicious Salted Pork slices, cures, and grills fresh Hakka black pork before packing it. It lightens the traditional degree of saltiness in particular to meet the dietary and flavor demands of modern people. This preserves the feature and delicious taste of Hakka salted pork while at the same time abiding by the health-preserving concept.
三久商行除延續傳統擂茶風味，為滿足現代人追求便捷生活，推出隨身單包裝設計，更獨家研創甜口味客家輕擂茶，後續將結合冰品製成漂浮擂茶、擂茶冰沙等新穎飲品，藉此發揚客家傳統飲茶文化。
Besides keeping the traditional flavor of punched tea, Sanjiu Store introduces tea bags to meet modern people's pursuit of convenience in life. In addition, there is the exclusive innovative sweet Hakka light punched tea. In the future, the company will continue to introduce a punched cold floater tea and punched tea smoothie to further spread the traditional Hakka tea culture. 
「哈客愛」如名希望以客家之愛(hakka love)，傳達與發揚「健康養生的客家美食」理念。本產品堅持不添加防腐劑、色素及香料，使用天然客家擂茶食材，除可品嘗擂茶香醇口感外，更能享受DIY手作之樂趣。
"Hakka Love", as the name says, wishes to communicate and spread the health-preserving ideas of Hakka delicacies based on the love for Hakka culture. Products of the company are free of preservatives, artificial colors, and spices and its punched tea is made of natural Hakka ingredients only. Besides tasting the pure and fragrant texture of punched tea, one can also enjoy the fun of DIY. 
峨眉茶行，擁有超過百年茶事經驗的老茶行，從茶園管理、採收、製作到烘焙都經過專業的品質控管。茶湯紅澄金黃的東方美人茶，有琥珀色的明亮潤澤感，帶有熟果及蜂蜜的茶香，甘冽清醇，風味絕佳。
Ermei Tea Shop is an old shop with more than a hundred years experience in tea affairs, including tea garden management, harvest, production, and baking of tea leaves. All are under professional quality control. Oriental Beauty Tea, whose liquor appears to be red to golden, carries the amber bright tone and the fragrance of ripe fruits and honey. It tastes sweet and pure, with an outstanding flavor. 
峨眉茶行的茶葉栽種於新竹峨眉及北埔一帶山區，本產品陳年老茶經長時間自然氧化後發酵，再經客家傳統工法精心烘焙，茶葉呈褐色，茶湯為明亮深褐色，滋味甘醇順口無刺激性，口感醇厚，入口喉韻更回甘。
Tea trees of Ermei Tea Shop are grown in the mountains of Ermei and Beipu in Hsinchu. This particular product, old tea, is fermented after long-term natural oxidation. Then, it goes through careful baking with the traditional Hakka technique. The tea leaves appear to be brown and the liquor is bright and deep brown. It tastes sweet and pure, pleasant and mild. The thick texture gives a sweet aftertaste after the liquor passes the throat. 
苗栗苑裡有「苗栗穀倉」之美譽，自然農栽米以代代相傳，順應天地的自然農法種植，過程遵循祖先天然工法，不噴灑農藥，不受外來污染，粒粒晶瑩飽滿的米粒是大地的珍寶，米香醇厚滋養著人們，品嘗出感恩惜福的客家農村故事。
Yuanli Township has been reputed to be the "barn of Miaoli". Local rice has been grown following natural agriculture traditions generation after generation. The natural agriculture technique features the natural method passed down by ancestors that does not involve the use of pesticide and is free of external contamination. The crystal-like and enriched rice is the treasure of the motherland. The fragrance and purity are the best nutrients. Behind the rice is the story of a Hakka agricultural village grateful for what they have.
以客家傳統農法種植及土礱研磨的稻米，秉持手工精神及認真的態度，特以「礱奉米」為名，並以契作方式自然農法概念生產稻米，鼓勵年輕人返鄉就業，藉此發展客庄農業及農村文化。
Rice cultivated applying traditional Hakka agricultural techniques, and milled with a grindstone surrounded by a woven bamboo basket symbolic of its handmade nature and the serious attitude of Hakka people, is named as "mill rice." The idea of producing this rice on the basis of contract farming and natural agriculture is to encourage young people to return to their hometowns for employment. This accordingly helps with the development of agriculture and the culture in Hakka agricultural villages. 
創始於1983年的誠健公司，憑藉30年專業厚實基礎，從事精良製造及研發工作，特遵循客家酸柑茶的「緊壓茶」技法製作，費時3個月歷經反覆的蒸、曬、烘、壓，九蒸九曬製程，製作出口感沁新的柚子茶。
Founded in 1983, Chen Jan is devoted to fine manufacturing, and research and development based on its 30 years of professionalism and its solid foundation. Following the compression technique for Hakka orange tea, it spent three months on repeated steaming, sun exposure, baking, and compressing, and with the process of nine steams and nine sun exposures successfully created the refreshing pomelo tea. 
誠健公司的百茶文化園區目前擁有全球300餘種草本養生茶品，其中杭菊茶是採用苗栗銅鑼種植的杭菊製成，採阡插法栽培的杭菊，堅持新鮮採收，才可製成天然安全，鮮味十足的好茶。
Chen Jan's Tea Cultural Park is currently home to more than 300 kinds of health-preserving herbal tea trees that are grown around the world. Chrysanthemum tea, in particular, is made of chrysanthemums grown in Tongluo, Miaoli. The company insists on harvesting the chrysanthemums planted with the cutting method fresh in order to produce natural, safe, and sufficiently fresh good tea.
田麥園實業社是個融合客家文化及眷村特色的美食創作坊。南瓜起士包選用苗栗客庄在地新鮮南瓜，搭配乳酪等食材，製作出有別以往風味的包子，南瓜富含多種維他命、礦物質等營養成份，是追求養生及愛美女性的最佳選擇。
Tianmaiyuan Company is a master in creating delicacies that combine Hakka culture and characteristics of military dependents' villages in one. The unconventional pumpkin cheese bun contains the fresh pumpkin grown locally in Hakka villages in Miaoli and other ingredients such as cheese.  Pumpkins are full of nutrients such as multivitamins and minerals and hence are an optimal choice for women in pursuit of health and beauty.
幼安歡喜兒咖啡屋為教養院之庇護工廠，各項產品皆以新鮮食材，搭配手工製作而成，其中地瓜餅蘊含了苗栗後龍客庄在地厚實的地瓜內餡，澄黃色澤與質樸在地的口味，甜而不膩的香氣在舌尖打轉，深深打動您的味蕾。
Youan Happy Kid Coffee Shop is an affiliate of a correction house. All of its products are handmade with fresh ingredients. The sweet potato cake, in particular, contains the sweet potato stuffing produced locally at a Hakka village in Houlong, Miaoli. The simple orange local flavor and agreeably sweet fragrance stays at the tip of the tongue and deeply touches your taste buds.
幼安歡喜兒咖啡屋的身障孩子們，親自到山裡採集新鮮月桃葉，秉持客家古法及選用苗栗在地食材，製成充滿月桃葉香氣的客家月桃粽，粒粒皆能感受身障孩子們用「心」製作的感動。 
Children with physical disabilities at Youan Happy Kid Coffee Shop pick fresh bamboo leaves in the mountains by themselves. With select local ingredients from Miaoli, fragrant Hakka bamboo leaf-wrapped sticky rice dumplings are produced following the traditional Hakka technique. Each of the dumplings is a touching product through which people can feel the devotion of these children. 
銘人商社，懷著對於客家先民的感佩之心，嚴選苗栗當地有機栽種的作物，精心研製各式客家傳統健康點心。其中芋頭酥更特選在地優質芋頭，以現代化生產管理方式製作，給予消費者健康、天然的客家傳統美食。
Thankful and respectful of the ancestors, Mingren Trading Company carefully selects local organic crops in Miaoli to create various healthy traditional Hakka snacks. Taro cake, in particular, is made of quality taros grown locally through modern production management techniques in order to provide consumers with healthy and natural traditional Hakka delicacies.
客家菜包因外形像似豬籠形狀，故大部分人稱它作「豬籠粄」，苗栗縣客家米食文化發展協會為發揚客家特色米食，特以原味豬籠粄，分別加入艾草、金桔、紅麴及紫米等素材，製成粄皮香Q、內餡飽滿的「五行豬籠粄」，讓傳統美味增添養生概念。
Because of their shape, Hakka vegetable buns are nicknamed pigpen buns. To promote the characteristic rice products of Hakka culture, Miaoli County Hakka Rice Culture Development Association particularly adds mugwort, round kumquat, red yeast rice, and black glutinous rice to original pigpen buns and produces the fragrant, chewy, and well-stuffed five-color pigpen buns, introducing the health-preserving concept to traditional delicacies. 
珍豬客家精饌嚴選黑豬滷製後皮帶骨圈狀豬腳，承襲客家傳統料理工法，不添加味精及中藥材，熬滷出外皮油亮Q彈，肥瘦適中，且具豐富膠原蛋白的珍豬腳，完整呈現客家料理獨特風味。
Best Hakka Pig Cuisine carefully selects the circular legs of black pigs with skin and bones. Without MSG and Chinese herbs, the stewed pig leg has greasy, shiny, and chewy skin, and adequate distribution of fat and lean meat. The pig leg with rich collagen content perfectly demonstrates the unique flavor of Hakka cuisine. 
珍豬客家精饌負責人劉菊英女士，以鬆軟香甜的芋頭，搭配特選豬肉條及客家油蔥酥等調味，獨家研製珍豬龍粄，無添加味精的龍粄，無論是蒸、煎、煮、炸料理方式，皆可嘗到客家傳統滋味。
The person in charge of Best Hakka Pig Cuisine, Ms. Ju-Ying Liu, uses loose, soft, fragrant, and sweet taros and select shredded pork and Hakka seasonings such as deep-fried shallot flakes in the best pigpen buns of her invention. Without MSG, the buns can be steamed, stir-fried, cooked, or deep fried and will show consistent traditional Hakka flavor. 
祥太商店創始人二姊，在對食材的挑剔及美味健康的前提下，包製草木灰天然焿粽，使用草木灰提煉萃取而成的鹼水及有機糯米，不添加多餘化學成分，讓焿粽帶有竹葉淡淡清香，為最天然的米製食品。
The family's second oldest sister, who is also the founder of Xiangtai Store, is very picky about the ingredients and insists that both good flavor and health must be taken care of. She hence uses alkaline water refined and extracted with plant ashes and organic sticky rice to make the natural sweet sticky rice dumpling without any additional chemicals. This is why the sweet sticky rice dumpling carries the light fragrance of bamboo leaves. It is the most natural rice product.
芳記養生坊的黑糖醋以養生為本，將已調製好的黑糖醋裝入老陶甕後，埋入苗栗公館鄉出磺坑得天獨厚的地理環境中，經過一百多個日子集天地菁華，轉化而成具通氣補血效用的黑糖醋。
The brown sugar vinegar of Fangji Health Shop is meant to help people keep good health. The reconstituted brown sugar vinegar is kept in old ceramic jars and buried in Chuhuang Pit in Gongguan Township, Miaoli with its unparalleled geographical environment. After more than a hundred days, the brown sugar vinegar will collect essence from heaven and earth and be able to boost blood circulation.
滿福堂餅行以客家人特有的醃漬物「福菜」，搭配精心上選肥瘦參半的珍貴黑豬肉，再拌入獨具的蒜香，製成皮薄內酥香氣滿溢，口感清爽而不鹹膩的「凍蒜肉餅」，這齒頰留香的好滋味，承襲百年傳統古早味。
Manfutang Bakery mixes pickled vegetables that are exclusive to Hakka culture, carefully selected valuable black pork with even distribution of fat and lean meat, and a special garlic to produce its topnotch garlic meat cake with a thin skin, crunchy interior, and refreshing texture. The delicious topnotch garlic meat cake leaves an agreeable salty aftertaste. It is the continuation of a hundred-year-old tradition. 
為傳承客家先民開墾拓荒，與大地共生、共存及共榮的生活態度與價值，品源農產行利用茶樹間種植的生薑，嚴謹製作苦茶油薑糖及薑餅等傳統農特產品，將來自於大地的恩賜，回歸最原始的感動。
To pass down the attitude and values of Hakka ancestors while they were reclaiming wasteland and learning how to live, survive, and prosper in the motherland. Ping Yuan Agricultural Products uses the raw ginger grown between tea trees to carefully produce special traditional agricultural products such as camellia oil ginger sugar and ginger cakes, transforming the gift from the land into a most original emotion.
糕皮餅為客家人俗稱的豬油餅，客桐酪坊遵循傳統古法烘製，以創新的糕皮餅棒造型呈現餅的新吃法，藉此憶起早期竹苗地區，大戶人家婚嫁禮俗中，必為首選、又油又香的傳統糕皮喜餅懷舊滋味。
The pastry skin cake is what Hakka people refer to as lard cake.  Ketongluo Shop applies the traditional baking technique to new ways to eat innovate pastry skin cakes and sticks, evoking people's memories of the must-have, greasy, fragrant traditional pastry skin cakes popular at rich people's weddings in the early days in areas such as Hsinchu and Miaoli. 
阿明客家發粄傳承迄今已有68年歷史，堅持傳統客家製法，超過12小時以上自然發酵，蒸製的發粄口感Q彈紮實，且不添加防腐劑及人工香料，特以蓬萊米取代糯米，不易產生胃脹氣，享用健康美味無負擔。
Ah-Min's sponge cakes have been produced for 68 years. The cakes are naturally fermented over a period of 12 hours following the traditional Hakka practice. The steamed sponge cake is chewy and solid in texture without preservatives or artificial flavors. Japonica rice is particularly used instead of sticky rice. Hence, it will not give rise to flatulence as easily. One can enjoy the healthy and delicious cake without any burden.
創辦人秉持客家勤勞樸實釀酒精神已傳承三代，從耕作到酒窖熟成的辛勤揮汗與耐心等待，每個環節皆謹慎堅持高品質。春之戀梅子酒，金黃琥珀酒色，入喉清爽如沐春風，果香層次豐富，酸甜滋味扣人心弦，彷彿漫步於鐵道邊。
It is now the third generation since the founder started to brew wine following the diligence and simplicity rule of Hakka culture. From cultivation to maturation in the wine cellar, the whole process requires hard work, perspiration, and patience. Top quality is carefully maintained at each step. The Spring Love Plum Wine appears to be golden and amber. It feels like being cooled by a spring breeze when the wine passes the throat with its refreshing aroma. The fruit fragrance is multi-layered. The sour and sweet flavor is as exciting as taking a slow walk by a railway. 
以客家作物「生薑」釀製薑母將軍酒，依循客家古法，除保留傳統外，更創新研發賦予味蕾新享受、新流行。同時秉持客家人好客精神，煮酒論英雄，耕山耕田，咬薑啜酒，再傳客家精神千百年。
The topnotch ginger wine is brewed with raw ginger, a Hakka crop, following the traditional Hakka practice. While the tradition is kept, there are new developments to bring about new enjoyment for the taste buds and new fads. Hakka people are known for their hospitality. They like to chat over wine. They cultivate the mountains and the fields. They chew ginger while tasting wine. The product is meant to pass down the Hakka spirit for hundreds and thousands of years.
好客媽媽擅長精製經典客家美食，這道以豬肉、乾魷魚、豆干，配上青蔥及芹菜拌炒而成客家小炒，顛覆以往客家菜的「鹹、香、肥」，以豬肉本身的油脂來增添口感，搭配風味淡雅的海鹽，讓食物嘗起來不死鹹，是真正傳統的幸福客家味。
Mothers known for their cooking tend to refine classic Hakka recipes. This Hakka stir-fry features pork, dried squid, bean curd, green onions, and celery and topples the stereotype of Hakka food being salty, fragrant, and fatty. The integral fat of the pork is used to enrich the texture. With light sea salt, the food tastes agreeably salty. It is an authentic traditional Hakka dish.
微醺彩虹烘焙，起源於八八水災而離開信義鄉神木村，移民南投市建立新故鄉的客家人。不僅創立「戀戀神木」品牌，更使用老家的梅子及小米等優質食材，研發梅精元氣棒，滋味如鮮摘的青梅，酸甜沁入新脾。
Weixun Rainbow Bakery was founded by Hakka people that relocated to Nantou City from Shenmu Village, Xinyi Township, as a result of the August 8th Flood. Besides the "Love Sacred Tree" brand, quality ingredients such as plums and millet from the hometown are also used to develop plum extract energy bars. They taste like fresh green plums. The sweet and sour taste hits the spot. 
兩位年紀加起來超過120歲的阿嫁公、阿嫁婆，於南投埔里山城，遵循老祖宗的自然農法，實現不老的咖啡夢，從種植、採收至挑豆，從不假他人之手，以友善大地自然耕種方式，能保護環境，更讓人們健康的享受臺灣咖啡。
Grandpa and Grandma Ah-Jia, who are over 120 years old combined, realized their forever-young coffee dream in the mountain city of Puli, Nantou, following natural agriculture techniques from the ancestors. They plant, harvest, and pick the beans all by themselves. The friendly natural way to cultivate the land protects the environment and enables people to enjoy healthy coffee from Taiwan.
唯有南投埔里客庄的好山好水，才能種植出嫩白青翠，素有美人腿之稱的茭白筍。吟詩企業公司特以家鄉的特產研製出美人腿泡菜，不僅增加農產收益，更賦予茭白筍新價值，和您茭心茭友，佐伴每一個美味時刻。
The tender, white, and green water bamboos are only available in the Hakka village of Puli, Nantou for the favorable natural conditions. Yinshi Company particularly produces kimchee with water bamboo, the exclusive product of the hometown, to not only increase agricultural income but also give water bamboo a new definition. The kimchee accompanies you through all the good times. 
獨特鳥形外觀的鳥仔餅，是嘉義溪口客鄉流傳的傳統糕點。早期中元節不忍殺生祭拜，而做出鳥形糕餅代替三牲，至今成為特有小吃。永芳喜餅不斷創新研發香菇、咖哩、芋頭及抹茶等新口味，致力於古早味永續傳香。
The bird cake, for its appearance resembling a bird, is a popular traditional pastry in the Hakka township of Xikou, Chiayi. The bird cake was first invented in the early days during the Ghosts' Festival because local people would not kill animals to be the sacrifice. It has now become a characteristic local delicacy. Yongfang Wedding Cookies and Cake constantly innovates by researching and developing new flavors such as mushroom, curry, taro, and matcha in order to pass down this traditional bird cake forever. 
咖啡果釀醋是以新鮮咖啡豆取下的果皮與果膠，歷經5個月的天然釀造而成，不僅延續咖啡餘香釀製成醋，在滴滴精釀香氣中，體驗客家人惜物愛物，與自然共存的謙卑。
Brewed naturally over a period of five months with the pulp and pectin removed from fresh coffee beans, the coffee bean vinegar does not only carry the residual fragrance of coffee but also demonstrates the modesty of Hakka people in co-existence with nature, cherishing and loving everything they have through each drop of the fine brew. 
一鳴生技農園位於高雄美濃客庄，採用自然農栽方式種植天然紅寶石-神秘果，並利用內含191種胺基酸營養元素，結合臺灣當季蔬果，歷經2年醃製時間，研發神秘果綜合酵素，提供每日所需精神與體力。
Yiming Biotech Farm is located in the Hakka village in Meinong, Kaohsiung. By means of natural agriculture, they grow the natural ruby -- miracle fruit. Taking advantage of its integral 191 kinds of amino acids and combining it with seasonal fruits in Taiwan, Yiming Biotech Farm cures the harvested miracle fruit over a period of two years to produce the comprehensive enzymes of the fruit that support the energy requirements people need every day. 
蘇老爺以純天然麥芽結合花生及茶香，更佐以南庄桂花香氣，製成造型特殊的桂花茶香手工麥芽糖。四季飄香的「桂花」象徵謙迎貴客，在古早味花生麥芽糖下，蘊藏著淡雅香氣，更提升了傳統美食的價值。
Mr. Su combines natural maltose with peanuts and tea fragrance. In addition, the fragrance from sweet olives from Nanzhuang, Miaoli, is used to produce a stylish sweet olive and tea-flavored handmade maltose. The ambient fragrance of sweet olives all year round symbolizes modest reception of guests. With its light and elegant fragrance, in addition to the traditional peanut maltose, it further enhances the value of the traditional delicacy. 
草莓田農產企業社為符合現代小家庭的需求，將來自苗栗大湖的草莓，研發營養豐富、低糖自然健康，並以少量隨手包設計「草莓七日醬包」，讓您隨時品嘗新鮮美味，更可加入紅茶或牛奶調和飲用。品牌名稱取為「草莓的新衣」，期望將傳統產業轉型創新，就猶如換上一套新衣裳般。
Strawberry Field Agricultural Products invented strawberry 7-day paste packets that are rich with nutrients, low in sugar, natural, and healthy, with strawberries from Dahu, Miaoli in order to meet the demand of modern nuclear families for the taste of fresh and delicious strawberries at any time. You may add the paste into black tea or milk, stir well, and then drink it. The product is named "Strawberries in New Clothes" with the aim of transforming and innovating the traditional industry. It is exactly like putting on new clothes. 
鄭媽媽以如同給家人健康營養的心意，嚴選天然食材，以日照充分的屏東高樹土鳳梨及口感綿密的紫心地瓜，搭配濃醇奶香製成牛軋糖，低糖、低脂及堅持手作的幸福美味，值得您細細品味。
Mother Zheng carefully selects natural ingredients, including the local pineapple from Gaoshu, Pingtung with sufficient sunlight exposure and the purple heart sweet potato that is known for its densely soft texture, to make the thick and pure milk-flavored nougat candy just like she will do for her own family in order to provide them with adequate nutrition while at the same time keeping them healthy. You should taste this low-sugar, low-fat, and handmade delicious candy. 
桂圓米糕是客家最古老的傳統經典米食，日安商行以天然食材，做出層次鮮明的米糕，有酒香、桂圓溫潤口感、黑糖甜味再加上糯米飽滿香氣，吃完後口齒留香、意猶未盡。
Longan glutinous rice cake is one of the most historical traditional classic rice products of Hakka culture. Rian Store uses natural ingredients to make the cake with distinctly textured layers. The fragrance of wine, the warm and enriching texture of longan, the sweet flavor of brown sugar and the abundant fragrance of the glutinous rice stay in the mouth after you have finished eating. It makes you want to have another one.
豆油伯缸底醬油使用大武山水脈湧出的泉水，秉持著傳統風味，把非基因改造黃豆及黑豆加上小麥，經過180天自然菌釀發酵榨汁，不經過稀釋裝瓶原汁原味，無添加人工色素、防腐劑及香料，適合多種烹調方式。
The soy sauce master's cylinder bottom soy sauce contains spring water bubbling from the water table of Dawu Mountain. Insisting on keeping the traditional flavor, the master mixes non-GMO soy beans and black beans plus wheat, which then undergo 180 days of natural fermentation before being milled. Without dilution, the soy sauce is absolutely original. There are no artificial colors, preservatives, and flavors. It can go with all kinds of recipes. 
豆油伯紅麴醬油，遵循古法方式，堅持純手工釀造而成，在釀造的過程中添加了紅麴一同發酵，並歷經180天屏東竹田的豔陽，才能釀造出傳統好味道，無添加人工色素、防腐劑及香料，風味香醇可安心長期使用。
The soy sauce master's red yeast rice soy sauce follows the ancient technique and is 100% handmade. During the brewing process, red yeast rice is added and fermented together. After 180 days of exposure to the powerful sunlight in Zhutian, Pingtung, the traditional good flavor is generated. Without artificial colors, preservatives, and flavors, the final product is fragrant and pure and hence is safe to use over a long term.
東寶黑豬肉香腸位於屏東客庄，以自家牧場飼養的黑豬製成，在飼養過程絕不使用瘦肉精、抗生素及荷爾蒙，飼養期長達13個月，不飽和脂肪酸含量較高，肉質自然熟成，味美多汁無腥羶味，肉色較白豬鮮紅，且富含大理石紋，堪稱是肉品中的貴族。
Dongbao black pork sausage is available at Hakka villages in Pingtung. The pork comes from self-raised black pigs. While the pigs are growing up, no lean meat powder, antibiotics, and hormones are used. The raising period is up to 13 months. The pork has a relatively high content of unsaturated fatty acids with a naturally mature texture. It is delicious, juicy, without an unpleasant smell. The meat color appears to be brighter than that of ordinary pigs and is enriched with a marble-like grain. It can be said to belong to the noble class of meat products. 
紅麴是客家傳統料理中不可或缺的佐料，「好客紅麴醬」乃歷經30年的經驗與技術，採用臺灣自製紅麴，發酵1年以上，保持原有風味不添加任何調味料，無鹽口味，自然呈現的美麗玫瑰紅，散發出淡淡清香。
Red yeast rice is an indispensable additive in traditional Hakka cuisine. House Red Yeast Rice Paste is the product of 30 years of experience and technical innovation. Local red yeast rice from Taiwan is used and fermented for more than a year. To keep the original flavor, no seasonings are added. It is unsalted and appears to be red like a natural rose with a light fragrant scent. 
自在廚房為傳承客家古早味的手工食品，用更健康、創新的手法製作「聰的醬」。猶記小時候從廚房窗邊傳來媽媽炒菜的醬香，便以「回憶窗邊香氣」為品牌出發點，讓人品嘗記憶中的好味道。
To continue the Hakka tradition of handmade food followed from ancient times, Comfortable Kitchen produces green onion paste in a healthier and more innovative way. In memory of the pleasant smell of paste used by the owner's mother while cooking that came out of the kitchen window during childhood, the owner decided to use "In Reminiscence of Pleasant Windowside Smell" as the starting point for the brand so that people recall the best flavor in their memory. 
米發發養生堂擅長以甜酒釀研創製作各式商品，手作酒釀餅乾是以客庄稻米及大武山泉水釀製而成的手工純天然甜酒釀，取代部分的麵粉及砂糖，並融合新鮮當季水果，烘焙輕巧養生兼具的特色餅乾。
Mifafa Healthy Home is good at inventing all kinds of products with sweet wine. The handmade wine cookies are made with natural sweet wine using rice grown in Hakka villages and spring water from Dawu Mountain to partially substitute for flour and sugar. In addition, fresh seasonal fruits are added to bake the characteristic light and healthy cookies. 
原在都市工作的年輕夫妻，毅然回到家鄉接管農物，身為客家人的太太偕同丈夫，秉持客家堅毅、不斷創新的精神，在花蓮玉里孕育赤科山無硫金針，並以「山言兩語」創立品牌；山言是來自山給予的禮物，兩語是許多人的祝福之意。
The young couple who are proprietors of 917 Delicious Shop had originally been working in the city but decided to come back to their hometown to be with its crops. The Hakka wife and her husband have grown sulfur free daylilies in Yuli, Hualien to honor the unswerving and constantly innovative spirit of Hakka people. They created the brand "Mountain Blessings". Mountain implies that the daylilies are a gift from the mountains and blessings represents the many good wishes from the people. 
花東粽穀堅持使用在地優質食材，並融合多穀健康元素，無人工添加物，全程秉持尊重自然、回歸大地的信念，讓平凡簡單的粽子，口口都能嘗到客庄用心手作的樸實幸褔。
East Taiwan Hakka Rice Dumplings and Grains insists on using only local quality ingredients in combination with multiple grains and healthy elements. Without artificial additives, the manufacturing process is based on respect for nature and a return to the land. Each bite of the simple and ordinary rice dumplings conveys a simple yet careful handcrafted blessing from a Hakka village. 
農郁米舖秉持老一輩的堅持與誠信，以最實惠的價格提供顧客最高品質的產品及服務，並以早期扁擔為設計發想，色彩鮮豔的扁擔造型外盒討喜有趣，為婚宴贈送賓客之喜米禮盒新選擇。
Nongyu Rice Shop offers customers best quality products and services at preferred prices to honor the older generation and its fortitude and integrity. The shoulder poles used in the old days inspired the design. The exterior box in the colorful shoulder pole style is auspicious and interesting and the product has become a new option for rice gift boxes in weddings as a giveaway to guests. 
農郁米舖的「手工精篩米」傳承老一輩的堅持信念，把米最好口感呈現給每一位饕客，並以實用的青衫布提袋包裝，不僅為客家勤儉樸質的美德，更打造出米不一樣的價值及故事。
Nongyu Rice Shop presents each customer with carefully milled rice that has the optimal texture according to the unchanging belief of the older generation. The rice is carried in a practical blue shirt cloth hand bag, which not only demonstrates the virtue of diligence and simplicity but also tells a different and valuable story about rice. 
早期將過多的食物醃製，是最具客家勤儉持家精神的料理方式。得勝食坊秉持客家對食材的重視，從挑選、調味到發酵都不假手機器，確實做到純手工製作的承諾，用心完成每罐白蘿蔔泡菜。
Excess food production was cured in the old times and has become the process most symbolic of the diligent and frugal attitude of Hakka people. Desheng Food Shop never uses machines from selection, and seasoning, to fermentation. Based on respect for Hakka people's valuing of food ingredients, the shop is committed to purely handmade products and carefully prepares each bottle of radish kimchee that it sells.
來自苗栗客庄的林老闆，搬遷花蓮後仍致力於發展客家美食料理，並將在地名產剝皮辣椒，結合紫蘇醃漬再加以改良，呈現創新風味，辣椒口感清脆，不僅下飯，也可作為零嘴，實屬道地美味佳餚。
Mr. Lin, the boss, came from a Hakka village in Miaoli. After he moved to Hualien, he continued to devote himself to the development of Hakka delicacies. He combined basil with the pickled peeled chili peppers that are famous locally and invented a modified version. The innovative flavor and the crunchy chili peppers not only are great to go with rice but also serve as good snacks, and have become an authentic local delicacy.
金源商號自家經營的豬肉攤，秉持乾淨、衛生及安全三大理念，客家鹹豬肉遵循古法製作，並以健康為考量，減少鹽分的使用，再加入獨門秘方調味，讓鹹豬肉不死鹹，並帶有獨特香味，彈牙的口感與自然鮮甜的肉汁，是嘗過便難忘的美妙滋味。
The pork stand run by Jin Yuan Store follows three major principles, cleanliness, hygiene, and safety. The Hakka salted pork is made applying the traditional technique. To be healthy, the volume of salt used is cut. The additional secret seasonings help render a final salted pork that is agreeably salty with a unique flavor. The chewy, natural, and sweet juicy meat is so wonderful that no eater can forget it.
金源商號自家經營的豬肉攤迄今已20餘年，特選新鮮溫體豬後腿精瘦肉，及珍貴的豬背脊油，再與精心調製的獨家配方充分攪和，製作出看得到肥肉卻吃不到油膩的客家風味香腸。
jin Yuan Store has run its own pork stand for more than 20 years. Fresh hind leg lean meat and precious back bones are taken from slaughtered pigs while they are still warm. Then, they are mixed fully with a carefully reconstituted unique formula to render the final product, the agreeable Hakka sausage, despite visible fat. 
產自於花蓮玉里赤科山的「臺灣原生種油菊」，須以人工一朵一朵的採集，5公斤的油菊以低溫烘乾後只剩下1公斤重，保留原有的色澤，沖泡後香氣濃郁優雅，可另外加入甜菊葉或枸杞等添加風味，等您細細品嘗。
The native chrysanthemums of Taiwan from Chike Mountain, Yuli, Hualien must be picked one petal after another manually. Chrysanthemums of five kilograms will come down to one kilogram after baking at a low temperature in order to keep the original tone. Soaked in hot water, the flowers release a thick yet elegant fragrance. One can add sweet leaves or lycium and enjoy the liquor. 
擁有扎實口感、茶香濃的客庄紅烏龍茶，以重發酵的優雅姿態呈現，新工法製程結合紅茶與烏龍茶的特色，琥珀澄色茶湯，在品茗時，同時感受烏龍茶的溫潤回甘，及紅茶的熟果香風味，茶葉不易變質，適合典藏。
The red Hakka oolong tea has a solid texture and carries a thick fragrance. It is presented elegantly through heavy fermentation. The new production technique combines the characteristics of black tea and oolong tea. The amber to orange tea liquor allows you to feel the gentle aftertaste of the sweetness of oolong tea and the ripe fragrance of black tea. The tea leaves do not degenerate easily and hence are suitable for collection.
傳承迄今已第3代的新峰茶莊，將產自臺東鹿野客庄的紅烏龍茶融入純手工製作的牛軋糖中，嚴選臺灣食材，無添加防腐劑，高優質無蛋素食健康概念的牛軋糖，香濃的滋味，是客家人堅守篤實純樸的心意。
It is now the third generation since the founding of Xinfeng Tea House. Red oolong tea from the Hakka village in Luye, Taitung, is combined with purely handmade nougat candy. With carefully selected domestic food ingredients and without preservatives, the high-quality and egg-free vegetarian healthy nougat candy carries a thick flavor. It represents the unchanged solid-grounded and simple attitude that Hakka people have toward food. 
「逢山必有客，逢客必有茶」，臺東鹿野客庄紅烏龍茶，利用夏秋茶菁原料生產，此茶生長於好山好水無空氣污染之地，早春晚冬日夜溫差大，受山嶽之氣及日月精華，四季雨露滋養，茶湯水色橙紅、氣味芬芳、滋味甘醇。
"Where there are mountains, there are Hakka people; Where there are Hakka people, there is tea." The red oolong tea from the Hakka village in Luye, Taitung, is made with tea leaves plucked in summer and fall. Grown in a place without any air pollution at all and benefiting from the energy from the mountains, the significant variations between day and night temperatures in early spring and late winter, and the rainfall throughout the year, the liquor of the tea appears to be orange red. It has an aromatic smell and tastes sweet and pure. 
南瓜米巧果酥好吃的秘訣除了用心製作外，更嚴選臺東池上客庄米穀粉及南橫高山栗子南瓜，再拌入純淨的海洋深層水等食材製成，小巧外型，讓您一口接一口，吃到健康及幸福滋味。
The secret to the delicious pumpkin rice and fruit cake is that it is made with carefully selected rice and grain powder from the Hakka village in Chishang, Taitung, and millet pumpkin from the mountains along the Southern Cross-Island Highway, with addition of other food ingredients such as pure and clean deep ocean water. The cake comes in a compact size. You will have one after another. It is healthy and full of blessings. 
紫蘇清潔皂是選用苗栗公館種植之紫蘇萃取物製成，使用後可使肌膚達到健康及清潔的天然清潔用品。雅瑟生活創意研究發現，紫蘇具有清潔、消毒、殺菌及除油等效力，突破僅能作為食材的傳統認知，並已申請專利。
The basil soap is made of basil extract from Gongguan, Miaoli. It is a natural cleaning agent that makes the user's skin healthy and clean. Yashe Living Creativity researched and found that basil could clean, disinfect, kill germs, and remove grease. The discovery revolutionizes the traditional idea of basil being only a useful food ingredient. Yashe has also applied for a patent for the soap.
看似簡單的花布，是許多客家人的童年回憶。對手工藝有著濃厚執著及興趣的葉金菊，為體恤現代人常久坐使用電腦，特別融合客家牡丹花布，設計開發臺灣造型的腕枕，並以手護臺灣為創作意象，期許大家共同保護美麗的寶島。
This seemingly simple cloth is a childhood memory for many Hakka people. Jin-Ju Ye has a strong determination and interest in handicrafts. In light of the fact that modern people tend to sit for long periods of time in front of a computer, she particularly combined the Hakka peony cloth in her design of the Taiwan-style wrist pillow. With "Protect Taiwan" as the image of the design, the hope is that everyone can protect this beautiful island together.
過去，火車為重要的交通工具，東勢支線因載運木材、農產品及旅客應運而生。現今東勢舊火車站已開發為客家文化園區，玉荷堂公司以全臺第一輛蒸汽火車「騰雲號」圖騰製作紀念T恤，期以振興921地震後沒落的東勢觀光產業。
Trains were an important means of transportation in the past. The branch line to Dongshi was established to facilitate transport of wood, agricultural products, and passengers. The old train station in Dongshi has now been developed into a Hakka cultural park. Yuhetang hence produced the T-shirt in memory of Tengyun Train, the very first train in Taiwan, with the hope to boost the tourist industry in Dongshi that died out after the 921 Earthquake.
綠茵科技商行承襲傳統客家先民勤儉刻苦、不浪費的生活態度，充分利用樟樹落葉或落枝，遵循古法催煉樟葉精油，精油內含珍貴枷羅木醇香料成分，天然清香不僅具防蟲功效，使用後更能滋潤肌膚。
Continuing with the diligent, frugal, and non-wasteful attitude to life of Hakka ancestors, Green Technology Store followed the traditional practice by using fallen camphor leaves or branches and converting them into camphor leaf essential oil. The oil contains valuable Linalool. It carries a natural mild fragrance and can not only keep off insects but also moisturize the skin after use.
聖莎琳公司把您對客家留有最深刻印象的桐花，以手工雕化成世界獨有的造型手工皂，搭配手工原木皂盤，封存在小小木盒中，是旅人的最佳伴手禮。手工的真摯，用雙手的溫度向世界傳達客家之美。
St. Selin carves out the paulownia flower most symbolic of Hakka culture into the soap by hand. It comes in an equally handmade wooden holder and a small wooden box. It is the most handy gift for travelers. The sincerity associated with the workmanship is communicated to all corners of the world through warm hands. 
樹蘭為客家原生樹種，一束束黃澄澄的樹蘭花朵，給人富貴吉祥的意象，富有淡雅清香，也是製作「花米香」的主要原料，六堆充足的日曬與季風，造就香品精純質地，透過品香養生、養性，在沉靜中讓香品生活化，人人品味生活香。
Orchid trees are a native Hakka species. Bundles of yellow flowers are symbols of wealth and auspiciousness. The flowers carry a mild, elegant fragrance. They are also the main ingredient for producing flower incense. The adequate sunlight and monsoon climate in Liudui contribute to the pure quality incense product. Incense is good for health and helps build character. In tranquility, incense can become part of life. That is, everyone can enjoy the fragrance of incense in daily life. 
箸服愉筷取其諧音，「箸」係以客家的牡丹花筷，再加上「服」的精緻油桐花及牡丹花筷套，充分融合客庄文化及美食。筷藝九香扮演著味蕾與客家記憶的橋樑，更是製造優質筷子的藝師，讓您在品嘗美食時，同時品味客庄藝術之美麗食器。
The name was given for its sound. "Zhu" means chopsticks in Mandarin and refers to Hakka peony chopsticks here while "fu" refers to the fine paulownia flower and peony chopstick cover. The chopsticks represent a combination of the culture and food of the Hakka village. Kuaiyijiuxiang acts as the bridge between the taste buds and memory of Hakka culture and it is also a master in producing quality chopsticks that enable you to appreciate the arts of the Hakka village while enjoying the food.
以客家祭祀文化的「聖筊」為創作理念，當兩個杯子一正一反擺放一起，便產生「聖筊」的意象，且客語發音同「升高」，代表著步步高升、漸入佳境之意涵。外包裝結合苗栗玉清宮廟宇剪影形象，讓本商品富有最大祝福及肯定。
The divine answer in the Hakka sacrifice culture is the creative idea behind these two cups, which when placed together with one facing forward and the other backward form the "divine answer" image. A "divine answer" in Hakka language is pronounced the same as "rising" in Mandarin, which means that one will get promoted and things will get better. The exterior package combines sketches of Yuqing Temple in Miaoli, which provide the utmost blessings and recognition for the product.
選用富含天然芬多精的高級紫檀木，經由老師傅手工打造，再由畫家彩繪客家花卉，創製典雅秀緻的精緻手工木梳，齒寬可按摩頭皮，齒密具順髮功效，是集美學及客家文化的時尚藝術品。
The old master makes the fine wooden comb by hand with high-class Burmese rosewood that is rich with phytoncides. Then, the painter adds the elegant and beautiful Hakka flower pattern to it. The comb can be used to massage the scalp while at the same time straightening your hair. It is a fashionable artwork that combines aesthetics and Hakka culture in one. 
資深國畫藝術家丘美珍，以擅長的青花彩繪進行創作，將蝴蝶及桐花結合代表「永結同心」，再加上牡丹花的富貴及祝福象徵。把杯口相疊更呈現出一隻完整蝴蝶，是極具紀念價值與藝術美感之創作，亦是生活美學上的享受。
Mei-Zhen Qiu, the senior artist specializing in traditional Chinese painting, combines butterflies and paulownia flowers in one to represent the idea of "heart to heart forever". The peony, which is symbolic of wealth and blessings, is added, too. With cup edges overlapping, it forms a complete butterfly. This is a creation of souvenir and artistic value that is also an aesthetic enjoyment in daily life.
歷時20年的經營，玉山畫廊透過樹脂黏土創作，介紹客庄龍潭家鄉之美，在捏塑成形過程中，將客家桐花立體呈現，並結合詩詞創作，傳遞客家傳統工藝美學，發揚及傳承客家文化。
Yushan Gallery, which is already 20 years old, introduces the beauty of the Hakka village in Longtan through its resin clay masterpieces. The 3-dimensional Hakka paulownia flower is vividly presented as shaped. With accompanying verses and poems, traditional Hakka workmanship and aesthetics as well as Hakka culture are communicated, spread, and passed on. 
陶藝家廖禮光，採掘新竹北埔客庄在地泥土燒造成柴燒杯，在樸實無華的器物中，瀰漫著相思薪柴的餘韻，自然而樸拙的肌理質感，呈現內斂沉穩、獨一無二的柴燒作品。
Li-Guang Liao, the ceramic artist, collected local clay at the Hakka village in Beipu, Hsinchu and fired it in a wood kiln into cups. The simple and plain cup is filled with a lingering feel of the love tree branches used. The natural and ordinary grain and texture make the cup an inward, calm, and unique wood-fired masterpiece.
君蝶工作坊以創新的蝶古巴特技法，展現獨特客家庶民美學，透過特殊的拼貼及創意技術，重組元素，妝點出獨一無二的紋飾，作品展現個人獨特風格與品味，透過簡單方式，美化居家環境，展現驚豔的客家花布，設計新世代生活美學。
Jundie Workshop presents the Hakka people's unique aesthetics through its innovative decoupage technique that features special collage and creativity, recombining elements to create one-of-a-kind patterned ornaments. All the masterpieces demonstrate the unique style and taste of the author. A house can become beautiful easily by hanging this impressive Hakka cloth, a life aesthetics for the new generation. 
杉林葫蘆工藝行以字、畫、刀工及創作等4面向，在葫蘆藝術創作上呈現客家文化之美，除將藝術、創意及生活結合，並藉此從葫蘆創作延伸至葫蘆種植及葫蘆美食等，創造在地就業機會。
Shanlin Gourd Handicraft Shop presents the beauty of Hakka culture in artistic gourd creations with texts, paintings, carvings, and creative design. It not only combines art, creativity, and life in one but also extends its inventions to growing and food, creating local employment opportunities. 
陳忠献老師以樹脂黏土為材料，創作客家服飾結合油桐花造形的藍衫鑰匙圈，讓文化與生活有最貼心的相扣，時時感受捏塑成形之細膩情感，期望讓藝術生活化並豐富生活趣味。
The teacher, Zhou-Xian Chen using resin clay designed the blue-shirt key chain in paulownia flower style so that life and culture can be closely bound together. One can feel the subtle affection represented in the key chain. The hope is to make art part of life and add to the fun in life. 
以繽紛色彩之客家五花為意象，創作具有印泥功能的客家五花寶寶名片夾，除傳達百花齊放，順應自然質樸本性外，討喜的五花寶寶公仔，更為實用及裝飾兼具，自用送禮皆宜之商品。
The baby name card holder, which is also an inkpad box, was created with the colorful Hakka five flowers as image. The blossoming flowers carry the message of simplicity and being in tune with nature. The attractive five flowers baby idol is both useful and decorative. It is a product that is suitable for self use or as a gift for a friend.
屏東內埔後堆客庄的昌黎祠，是全臺唯一主祀唐宋八大家之首韓愈的廟宇。昌黎硯以具備形、質、色條件之鐵丸石製作而成，石皮部分天然成形的圖騰深具藝術之美，內質溫潤，硬度5-6度遇水不乾，研磨帶蠟書寫流暢，昌黎硯宜用、宜賞、宜藏。
Changli Shrine in the Hakka village in Houdui, Neipu, Pingtung is the one and only temple dedicated to the memory of Han Yu, the first on the list of the Top Eight Great Writers of the Tang and Song Dynasties. Changli Inkstone is made of iron shot stone that is known for its unparalleled shape, quality, and color. On the surface of the stone is a naturally formed graphic of artistic beauty. With a warm and moist temperament and a hardness of five to six degrees, it does not dry when wet with water and the inherent wax is released when the stone is ground, facilitating smooth writing. The Changli Inkstone is good for use, appreciation, and collection.
