"把客家變成世界最美的角色

駿翔實業有限公司於1987年創立迄今，累積20年印製、染色及後加工等布料製程及成品手工製作經驗，致力於客家文化相關產品之開發。花布是客家文化特色及象徵，近年來更以客家花布產品為開發主力，結合地方產業，讓花布擺脫傳統俗氣的印象，釋放出文化的氣息，透過「美角MeiGa」品牌將花布布藝傳遞至臺灣許多角落。為了讓更多人能深入瞭解客家花布的故事，特別於臺北辦公室1樓設置客家花布及品牌故事介紹，以簡單而帶有桐花風格的主牆，結合後方的辦公空間，將花紋融入空間設計，輔以立體浮雕，整體呈現出優雅大方之氣勢。2樓為商品展示區域，以淺色系的素雅木質展櫃襯托繽紛的花布產品，除呈現客家花布發展的多元性，更可從每樣展示品上發現，傳統印象中的花布已突破既有思維，創造出與時尚接軌的新形象。另設有具機能性的會議桌椅，讓參觀顧客歇息駐留，並藉由DIY手作之花布藝品，體驗傳統與現代、懷舊與創新之文化新感受。
"
"Hakka is the Most Beautiful in the World

Since its initial establishment in 1987, Mechlin has accumulated 20 years of experience in printing, dyeing, and post-processing fabrics, as well as hand-making finished products. The company is devoted to the development of products representative of Hakka culture. Fabrics are an important characteristic of and symbol within Hakka culture. The development of Hakka fabric products has become a main focus for the company over the past few years. Working with local businesses, it has demolished the traditional impression of the fabrics being common and plain. Instead, fabrics now make a cultural statement. Its fabric craftsmanship has spread to the many corners of Taiwan under the brand ""MeiGa."" In order to give people a deeper understanding of the story behind Hakka fabrics, the company has dedicated a corner of the ground floor of its Taipei office to introducing Hakka fabrics and the brand history. The simple and paulownia flower-style main wall is integrated into the spatial design of the office area in the back, and complemented by the bas-relief designs on the wall. The design as a whole is elegant and generous. The second floor is the showroom. The elegant wooden display cabinet is light-colored and elegant, and shows the diversification of development of colorful fabrics while it also demonstrates the fact that traditional fabrics have transcended existing patterns of thought, and have taken on a new image that puts them on a par with modern fashion fabrics. In addition, there are functional meeting tables for visitors to sit down and take a rest. The DIY handmade fabric handicrafts displayed enable visitors to experience the new cultural sensations of tradition and modernity, of reminiscence and innovation. "
"體驗最安靜的料理-醃製

一位從閩南家庭嫁到客家庄的媳婦，因傳承自婆婆的醃製好手藝，以街坊鄰居口耳相傳的好滋味創立阿金姐品牌。酸桔為客家料理中的常見食材，但阿金姐將一般不會直接食用的酸桔釀造成香桔汁，利用創意將客家傳統味道以不同形式傳承下來，醞釀、等待、進而昇華為精粹的美味。因此從門面至店內都是以「桔」的顏色作為規劃，而品牌識別系統，是使用工作坊負責人，亦即阿金姐丈夫彭秉祿先生的書法字體，整體空間圍繞著明亮寬敞、簡單俐落、自然舒適的元素，利用大面積層板做為產品展示區，外觀採用實木鋼刷木皮提升空間舒適感，而工作互動區的設置，讓顧客擁有DIY手作的體驗，如同專櫃般簡單大方的陳列，卻不失價值感。另規劃一面形象牆，讓顧客在購買過程中，亦能了解阿金姐品牌的感人故事，及屬於阿金姐的氛圍空間。"
"Experiencing the Quietest Cuisine - Curing

Sister Jin is ethnically Minnan, but married into a Hakka family. She created her own brand after having inherited excellent curing skills from her Hakka mother-in-law. The delicious taste is well known among her neighbors. Sour oranges are a common ingredient in Hakka cuisine. Sister Jin, however, brews them into aromatic juice, as people usually do not eat the oranges directly. She applies her creativity to pass down the traditional Hakka flavor in different forms. The brewing and waiting results in a unique and delicious flavor. From the door to the interior, the entire shop is designed with the theme of oranges. The brand logo, on the other hand, is written out in calligraphy by Sister Jin's husband, Mr. Bin-Lu Peng, who is also the person in charge of the shop. The whole room is well illuminated and spacious, simple and smart, natural, and comfortable. Wide planks of plywood are used to display products. The exterior, on the other hand, features real wood and steel brushed bark to add to the sense of comfort. Additionally, the interactive zone enables customers to have DIY experiences. The simple yet generous display nonetheless conveys a sense of treasure and value. Additionally, there is an image wall that enables customers to know the touching story of Sister Jin's brand and be exposed to Sister Jin's personal philosophies while making purchases."
"客家百年大麵歷史風情展現

金瑞珍行位於新竹關西旅遊必經之主要幹道，為能吸引過路客目光，將整體外牆及外觀以仿日式設計，並且以不同寬度之木頭欄柵作為麵條之意象，藉此展現金瑞珍行自1910年日治時代創立，歷經百年傳承至今第4代，仍遵循古法製作之口味。入口處以木造展現純樸質感，局部退縮設計營造迎賓空間，形象牆的設置，也使路過旅客能瞭解店家商品特色。擁有半百歷史的烘麵坊，以大片玻璃窗呈現百年烘麵技藝，室內展售空間，除延續室外直線條造型外，更設置形象牆介紹秉持客家質樸勤奮精神，製作保有傳統口味之商品特色。整體空間融入客家藍染布品及具客家特色之裝飾作為點綴。並設計一系列平面文宣，強化產品與客家美食之連結，以具客家風味之風味麵點設計成卡片式食譜，作為贈品，提供顧客創新料理之參考，亦可推廣客家大麵。"
"Stylish Presentation of a Hundred Years of Hakka Noodle History

Jinruizhen Shop is located along the way to Guanxi, Hsinchu. To attract the attention of people passing by, the whole exterior wall and appearance are designed in a Japanese style. Wooden bars of varied widths are used, to resemble noodles. The design is meant to indicate that the shop has been in existence since 1910, during the Japanese colonial period. It is now more than a hundred years old and is currently run by the fourth generation. Nevertheless, products are made following the traditional practice. The wooden entrance shows a sense of simplicity. The gradually retracting design is meant to create a welcoming space for guests. The image wall is set up to also enable passers-by to understand the characteristics of products sold at the shop. The half-century-old noodles baking workshop is separated by a large piece of glass so that the century-old baking techniques are vividly displayed in front of customers. The indoor showroom is an extension of the outdoor linear style, with additions of the image wall that introduces the simple and diligent attitudes of the Hakka people. Distinctive products that have retained traditional flavors are made here. The whole shop is decorated with the blue dye fabric products and ornaments symbolic of Hakka culture. Meanwhile, a series of printed advertising materials are designed to strengthen the links between products and Hakka delicacies. The card-like recipes containing authentic Hakka noodle entrees are gifts for customers when they attempt innovative cuisine at home, and helps promote Hakka noodles, too. "
"打造農村天人共好簡樸新「柿」覺

主要以教育農場形態為基底的金漢柿餅，目前是以柿子產品販售、產業解說、生態解說及各式農村生活體驗等作為經營模式，期轉型成觀光工廠形式之教育文化園區，以創意與故事提升傳統柿子產業的文化及價值。本次以「柿餅」、「天人共好」及「手工自然」作為品牌定位與設計核心。整體空間的建置也保持材料最原始的風貌，在新的場域裡，顧客可以最真實感受觸摸水泥、磚牆、木材等最自然的接觸，並以竹子營造室內氛圍，製成櫥櫃及家具，整體空間可感受手作的純樸感動。透過玻璃屏障，半開放的柿餅製作加工區，呈現柿餅的製程，讓顧客以視覺感受體驗柿餅文化。內、外空間皆以大地色系如深咖啡色、棕褐色、卡其色、土黃色及橄欖綠等配色，結合簡單、樸實線條呈現沉穩與內斂。並融入曬製柿餅的竹簍及柿染作品等意象，以原木木材及柿子樹幹，重現柿餅農村的氣息及串起農村的兒時記憶。"
"New ""Persimmon-vision"" for Coexistence of Mankind and Nature in Agricultural Villages

Jin-Han started primarily as an educational farm. Its current operation model features the distribution of persimmon products, guided industrial tours, guided ecological tours, and various agricultural village life experiences. The company expects to transform successfully into a tourism factory-based educational cultural park that is devoted to promoting the culture and value of traditional persimmon businesses by applying creativity and its unique background. Persimmons, the co-existence of mankind and nature, and handmade natural products are at the core of brand positioning and design. The overall spatial layouts keep the original appearances of the materials, too. In the new arena, customers can physically touch the cement, brick walls, and wood. They are exposed to the most natural elements. Bamboos are used for the interiors. They are made into closets and furniture. Simply being in the room is enough to enable customers to be touched by the handmade simplicity. Through the glass barrier, visitors can see the partially open persimmon processing zone. Visualizations of how dried persimmons are made is another way for customers to experience the persimmon culture. Both the exterior and interior feature earthy colors, such as dark brown, dark tan, khaki, earthy yellow, and olive, in combination with simple and plain lines to create an aura of calmness and introversion. There are also images of the bamboo baskets used to dry persimmons in the sun, as well as persimmon-dyed works. The real wood and persimmon trunks help bring to life the experiences of an agricultural village known for producing dried persimmons and the childhood memories of an agricultural village. "
"從精緻奢華回歸到自然健康

早期農業時代吃得健康自然，隨著科技日新月異的發展及社會化影響，現代人飲食習慣越來越講求精緻，金椿茶油以回歸健康自然為出發點作為整體規劃設計，建立全新的品牌概念，藉此呼應金椿在食的方面選用優質的茶花籽油製成系列產品，降低人體負擔。而此次將原有的展售空間打造成金椿茶油體驗主題館，在入口處設置小型體驗區及形象牆，透過形象牆的建立，除明確指引顧客外，同時也讓顧客可瞭解金椿的歷史沿革，形塑於顧客心中的品牌形象，亦也可更了解茶油在客家文化裡所代表的地位。而入口處的左方，則為全新的體驗主題館，顧客可在此選購金椿商品與品嘗客家美食。透過精細評估及設計，讓展示櫃裡商品陳列一目了然，環保質樸的建材，與產品形象概念相結合，呈現單純且強而有力的氛圍。代表金椿品牌由都市轉換為茶園風格，將你我的生活習慣從精緻奢華回歸到健康自然。"
"From Exquisiteness and Luxury to Nature and Health

In the early agricultural days, people ate healthily and naturally. As technology advanced and society progressed, modern people became accustomed to a finer diet. Golden-Flower Tea Oil Production is designed and planned as a whole, with a return to health and nature as its appeal. The new brand concept answers to the insistence of Golden-Flower Tea Oil Production in selecting quality camellia seed oil for all of its products, to minimize the burden on the human body.The existing showroom is built into the Golden-Flower Tea Oil Experience Theme House. At the entrance are the small experience zone and image wall. The image wall helps provide customers with explicit guidance and enables them to understand the history of Golden-Flower, to accordingly consolidate the company's brand image in the hearts of customers. It also helps visitors better understand the importance of tea oil in Hakka culture. To the left of the entrance is the brand new experience theme house where customers can purchase Golden-Flower products of their choice and sample Hakka cuisine. Products on display inside the cabinets are clearly visible, with carefully evaluated designs. The environmentally friendly materials correspond to the brand image and concept. Together they contribute to a simple yet powerful aura. The brand Golden-Flower has switched from an urban to a tea garden style, to return people's habits from exquisiteness and luxury to health and nature. "
"打造阿煥伯的福菜夢想時刻

臺灣最早將福菜加工企業化的湛新煥，生前大家都稱他為阿煥伯，兒子湛炎慶為延續遵循代代相傳留下來的好滋味，成立美之味農產企業社，並創立「阿煥伯」品牌，累積超過50年醃漬食品經驗，將豐富的故事性打造為品牌特色。此次的空間改造是將美之味歷代傳承的精神，以建置品牌形象館來呈現歷史沿革及動人的故事，從入口處就可見形象區及品牌介紹，除導入如醬菜缸、客家花布及紙傘等客家元素，使整體空間呈現更多元的客家文化，更增設多媒體形象解說設備，以生動影音讓顧客更了解客家醬菜文化，搭配多功能商品展示櫃及圓形櫃臺設計，讓傳統產業賦予新氣象。結合建物外形象的雨批做為視覺導入，設計出令人注目的品牌識別系統，提升品牌識別度。"
"The Dream Moment for Uncle Huan and His Mixed Vegetables

Xin-Huan Zhan was one of the earliest people to turn the processing of mixed vegetables in Taiwan into a corporate venture. People called him Uncle Huan. After he died, his son, Yan-Qing Zhan, inherited his father's good taste and started Delicious Taste Agricultural Products Corporation. The son also founded the brand ""Uncle Huan"" to turn the wonderful story into a unique brand that is supported by over 50 years of experience with cured products. The recent renovation is meant to present the company's history and its touching story through the brand image house, so that the family spirit at Delicious Taste is communicated to customers. At the entrance visitors can see the image zone and brand introduction. Apart from Hakka elements such as paste cured vegetables jars, Hakka fabric, and paper umbrellas—which demonstrate the diversity of Hakka culture—there are also multi-media image briefings to help customers gain a better understanding of paste cured vegetables in Hakka culture. In addition, the multi-purpose product display cabinets and round cabinets are designed to give a new look to the traditional industry. The rain canopy outside the building serves as a form of visual guidance. It is integrated in the design of the eye-catching brand identification system for improved brand visibility. "
"追返兒時記憶的好「漬」味

集結豆腐塊、黃豆粒、豆腐層板及醃製陶甕等客家傳統元素，以精緻化的視覺、現代化的手法呈現傳統藝術與美食的結合。以紅磚瓦牆帶出傳統老店脈脈相傳的意境，以古早物品記錄郭家莊醬園變遷的活歷史，客家花布畫龍點睛地讓空間散發出客家文化氣息，卻不失雅緻的氛圍，仿古的設計感，以暖色及木質做為內部裝潢基調，簡約的現代線條，樸實而不失風味的設計，即使翻修新面貌，仍然保留著傳承古法技藝、手工製作的用心，這裡不僅是豆腐乳的文化展示空間，讓顧客在充滿客家文化的創新店面裡體驗，也藉此空間的再造，期成為苗栗公館最具代表性的「豆腐乳主題館」。"
"Good Taste since Childhood

Traditional Hakka ingredients such as tofu cubes, soy beans, tofu boards, and curing ceramic jars are combined and demonstrated in a fine visual and modern way, to show the perfect combination of traditional art and cuisine.The red brick wall symbolizes the passing of this traditional and historical store from generation to generation. The objects from the olden days are a record the living history of Guo's Paste Garden's transformation. Hakka fabric delicately releases an air of Hakka culture into the room. The elegant aura and retro designs are made possible by the warm-color wooden interiors. The simple modern lines are plain yet stylish. Despite having gone through renovations, the traditional and ancient practices and skills, as well as handmade production methods, have all been kept intact. It is not only a showroom for the culture of cured bean curds, which allows customers to feel innovative Hakka culture for themselves, it is also the most representative cured bean curd theme house in Gongguan, Miaoli. "
"「嗅」出百年技藝之樟腦新感受

過去臺灣曾有「樟腦王國」之美名，而寶島燻樟家族於日治時代即開始製樟腦，迄今已百年歷史，仍堅持古法製作。第4代不忍看曾經輝煌的臺灣樟腦沒落，為傳承及發揚臺灣客家老祖宗製樟腦智慧及技術，特別建置「寶島燻樟故事體驗館」，讓更多人參與及見證歷史悠久的樟腦產業。在故事體驗館的入口形象部分，以大地色彩呈現溫厚的質感，內部包含清朝及日治時期製腦沿革、樟腦歷史、燻油及相關商品介紹等，每個不同區域藉由空間營造的氛圍，系統性規劃出參觀動線，更搭配蒸餾體驗區及DIY創作區之設置，讓遊客更能親歷百年文化之感動。而櫃檯則運用原木層疊設計，更活用原有展示櫃，激盪出視覺與嗅覺、傳統及現代之新感受，提升樟腦產業對這片土地的教育與傳承的價值。"
"New Smells of Hundred-year-old Camphor

Taiwan was known as the ""Kingdom of Camphor"" in the past. Formosa Smoked Camphor first started to produce camphor during the Japanese colonial period. More than a hundred years have passed, but their production methods remain unchanged. The fourth generation did not want to let the once glorious camphor business in Taiwan die out, and hence particularly established ""Formosa Smoked Camphor Story House"" to let more people participate in and witness the historical camphor industry, and accordingly pass down and spread their Hakka ancestors' wisdom in producing camphor and the techniques they used. The image at the entrance to the story house features a warm and thick texture created with earthy colors. Inside the house is the introduction to camphor's production history, starting in the Qing dynasty and moving through the Japanese colonial period. The history of camphor, its smoking oil, and its related products are also on display. Different corners feature different atmospheres, which visitors go through in a systemically planned route. In addition, there are the distillation experience zone and DIY zone, so that visitors can experience camphor in person and be touched by the hundred-year-old culture. The counter, on the other hand, is piled with real wood. The existing display cabinets are utilized to inspire new visuals, smells, traditions, and modern feelings, and increase the value of the camphor industry to Taiwan in terms of education and heritage. "
"結合觀光、休閒、生態之諾麗果傳奇館

川永生技休閒農場透過創新，結合產業文化滿足民眾對「諾麗果」的知識探索，建構為具教育意義之主題空間，因此以「客家、農場、諾麗果」為品牌精神，融入整體形象設計，期藉此達到推廣之目的。川永農場位於屏東內埔客庄，但多數民眾並不會把諾麗果與客家連結一起，身為客家人的農場主人徐榮銘以此為目標，採用多種客家元素如花布、竹簍、竹編物品、紙傘及甕等器具，自然融入全新打造的「諾麗果傳奇館」場域裡，透過擺設與展示，讓整體空間釋放出濃厚的客家氛圍。除設置教育解說中心，提供相關產業知識外，更有諾麗果專區介紹，以豐富圖文方式拉近民眾與諾麗果間的距離，並規劃諾麗果手工皂DIY體驗製作及相關伴手禮，是極具休閒觀光價值之景點。"
"Sightseeing, Recreational, and Ecological Noni Legend House

Chuanyong Biotech Leisure Farm combines innovation with industry and culture, to satisfy people's desire to explore knowledge about the fruit called noni. This educational theme house features the brand elements ""Hakka"", ""farm"", and ""noni"". The elements are combined in the overall image design to accordingly accomplish the goal of promotion. Chuanyong Farm is located in the Hakka village in Neipu, Pingtung. Most people, however, do not link noni to Hakka culture. In light of this, the Hakka owner of the farm, Rong-Ming Xu, naturally integrated multiple Hakka elements such as fabrics, bamboo baskets, bamboo weaved supplies, paper umbrellas, and jars into the brand new ""Noni Legend House"". The arrangement and exhibition add an air of Hakka culture throughout the house. Besides the educational center that provides related knowledge on the industry, there is an area designated for introducing the fruit, noni. The abundant graphics and text give visitors a better understanding of the fruit. In addition, there are the noni soap DIY activities and related gifts. It is a highly valuable leisure and sightseeing spot. "
"客庄嬤嬤以釀造文化行銷在地觀光

屏東高樹鄉大埔村的村民，以無汙染的水源及土壤孕育出純淨的在地農作物，而大埔合作社則擔任記錄及傳承客家傳統釀造文化重要角色，創立「青春釀」品牌，生產一系列蘿蔔乾、豆腐乳及水果醋等優質產品，並於2011年成立「客庄嬤嬤釀造工坊」。此次以鮮明的「客庄嬤嬤釀造工坊」品牌建立新形象，並整建建築體景觀及戶外動線規劃，室內空間則以燈光重整為農產作業加工區及展售空間，形塑具人文質感之場域，更包含釀造DIY體驗規劃，有效提升大埔社區的產業價值，增進社區生態、生產及生活等多元文化，展現每位客家媽媽對食物的用心，成為具農產匯集、生產、教學導覽、體驗活動、商品販售及觀光休閒等功能之體驗農場。"
"Hakka Grandmas Market Local Tourism with Brewing Culture

Residents of Dapu Village, Gaoshu Township, Pingtung, grow pure and clean local crops with unpolluted water and soil. Dapu Cooperative, on the other hand, assumes the important responsibility of documenting and passing down the traditional Hakka brewing culture. The created brand ""Youth Brewage"" features a series of quality products, including dried turnips, cured bean curd, and fruit vinegar. It founded the ""Hakka Grandma's Brewing Workshop"" in 2011. The bright ""Hakka Grandma's Brewing Workshop"" logo was used to create a new brand image. The building landscape and outdoor movement routes have been reorganized, too. The interiors, on the other hand, include an agricultural processing zone and showroom with bright illumination. The whole area is imbued with a sense of humanity. In addition, there is the brewing DIY zone. It effectively promotes the industrial values of the Dapu community and diversifies the ecology, production, and life in the community. The workshop shows the careful efforts each Hakka mother puts into the food she makes. The workshop has become an experience farm, combining agricultural products, production, guided teaching tours, experiential activities, product distribution, sightseeing and recreation. "
