品牌故事(業者修正版)

駿翔成立迄今已有20多年，有著深厚的紡織成衣製造專業，熱愛將布品開發設計成各式各樣的家飾品、布包及時裝等精品，銷售足跡已遍布世界各地。每年4、5月為桐花盛開的季節，全臺舉辦的桐花祭活動，更是具客家文化代表性之節慶。駿翔以桐花結合客家意象，開發新的桐花花布，並以設計加值一系列精緻的生活用品，更以「美角」（MeiGa）為品牌，重視每一個製作環節，創造出最美的角色。從對客家文化熱情出發，期做「最美的角色、最用心的訣竅」，藉由布面盛開的花朵，分享給全世界的朋友，透過花布布藝說自己的故事、唱自己的歌。






Mechlin Tailor Shop has been in existence for more than 20 years. With solid textile and garment manufacturing expertise, the company is devoted to the development and design of fabric materials and their transformation into a variety of fine products, such as home ornaments, cloth bags, and fashionable clothing. Sales of their products have reached all corners of the world. April and May are the Tung  blossom season. This is when the Hakka Tung Blossom Festival takes place. Hakka people throughout Taiwan celebrate this symbolic festival of Hakka culture. Mechlin Tailor Shop has combined the Tung Blossom with traditional Hakka imagery to create Tung Blossom fabrics for use in an exquisite series of value-added daily necessities under the brand name MeiGa.  This brand emphasizes the importance of each production step. The company has been able to create truly beautiful products. Starting off with a passion for Hakka culture, the company hopes to produce "the most beautiful and most carefully tailored" products and share the blossoming flowers on the fabrics with friends around the world. The flower-patterns and fabrication techniques sing their own stories to the viewer.






昀谷國際傢飾有限公司擅長製作防蚊簾、包覆巾、桌巾及抱枕等家飾用品，經不斷改良創新，將常見的居家用品發展為具多功能特性及用途。本產品油桐花防蚊簾，於簾子下擺採橫條設計方便使用者依門的高度裁切簾布，下擺縫製磁鐵，使用擺動時，可讓下擺隨時恢復緊密貼合狀態，更能發揮防蚊功效，貼心的設計深受消費者喜愛，除此更加入桐花元素，代表客家的熱情良善與隨遇而安的個性，讓商品更多了文化意涵價值。
Yungu International Furniture and Ornaments Company Limited specializes in making home ornaments and supplies such as mosquito nets, cover cloths, table cloths, and arm pillows. With constant innovation and repeated modifications, common home supplies are developed to provide the user with superior products that have multiple functions and purposes. This particular product, the Tung flower mosquito net, features fabric with a hem stripe design at the bottom and is cut at a user-friendly height. Magnets sewn to the bottom ensure that the drapes remain tightly closed whenever it moves to better keep mosquitoes out. The thoughtful design has been very much loved by consumers. In addition, the  Tung  flower element is added to symbolize the passion, friendliness, and easy-going nature of the Hakka people. It bestows on the product additional cultural value.
億達草本研發工作室以多年時間辛勤培育，種植全國獨具的羊耳草(筋骨草)，並加入客家民俗中，可祛風避邪、保平安之抹草，傳承客家老一輩的經驗與智慧，改良研製抹草美容皂，皂身刻有桐花意象，且晶瑩剔透如皂中之翡翠。億達草本堅持以傳承加上現代化開發研究技術，開創屬於自己的特色。
Yi-Da Herbs has carefully grown over the years the exclusive black liparis (ajuga) that cannot be found anywhere else in Taiwan. Desmodium, which is known to be capable of keeping off bad spirits and keeping one safe in Hakka culture, was added to this cosmetic soap. The bar of soap symbolizes the passing-down of the experiences and wisdom of the older Hakka generation. On the soap is an image of  Tung  flowers. Crystalline and clear, it is like an emerald in the soap. Yi-Da Herbs insists on developing its own characteristics, while taking into consideration the preservation of the traditional, and on applying modern development and research techniques.
擂茶為客家傳統飲茶方式，客家老一輩認為「勤勞、食物清淡、常飲擂茶」是健康長壽的主因，故有「每天3碗擂茶，保您活到98」一說。擂茶以茶葉及五穀雜糧為主要成分，能充飢解渴並兼具保健，是客家人招待貴賓的茶點。璞鈺商行致力推廣擂茶飲食文化，研發各種符合現代人需求之擂茶，並將擂茶製成為精美伴手禮，而節能包系列擂茶，更以經濟實惠的方式包裝，送禮自用兩相宜。
Pestled tea (or: "Lei Cha") is a traditional way of drinking tea in Hakka culture. The older Hakka generation believes that "diligence, light food, and frequent consumption of pestled tea" is the key to health and longevity. As such, there is another saying that goes: "three bowls of pestled  tea a day keep you healthy up to the age of 98." Pestled  tea consists primarily of tea leaves and a five-grain mix. It satisfies an empty stomach, quenches the thirst, and is good for health. It is something that Hakka people prepare for important guests. Hakka Pestle Cereal is devoted to promoting pestled  tea drinking culture by   developing various types of tea that meet the needs of modern people. They also make pestled  tea into exquisite gifts.  The eco-friendly  pack series, in particular, features economical and practical packaging. Good both as a present and for personal use.
酸柑是苗栗客家山區冬季盛產的水果之一，楓之醇本舖將新鮮酸柑，經九蒸九曬製程後，完成堅硬的酸柑茶茶塊，更設計方便沖飲的茶包，將其分別裝進酸柑造型的橘紅色陶罐裡，外包裝以密集板組合而成，呈現客家傳統竹簍意象，兼具環保及趣味，蓋子打開後，濃郁酸柑香氣隨之撲鼻而來。
Sour citrus fruit is one of the abundant winter fruits produced in the Hakka mountain areas of Miaoli. Fong-Zhe-Chuen Food Co. uses a steaming and solar-drying process, repeated nine times, to turn this fruit into hard and robust cubes that are used to make sour citrus fruit tea. In addition, they have designed convenient instant tea bags, which are packed in citrus-shaped orange color ceramic bottles. The external packaging of plywood is crafted to symbolize a traditional Hakka bamboo basket. It is both environmental-friendly and appealing to the eye. As soon as the lid is removed, one immediately is enveloped in the thick aroma of sour citrus fruit.

