品牌故事(業者修正版)

"打造農村天人共好簡樸新「柿」覺

主要以教育農場形態為基底的金漢柿餅，目前是以柿子產品販售、產業解說、生態解說及各式農村生活體驗等作為經營模式，期轉型成觀光工廠形式之教育文化園區，以創意與故事提升傳統柿子產業的文化及價值。本次以「柿餅」、「天人共好」及「手工自然」作為品牌定位與設計核心。整體空間的建置也保持材料最原始的風貌，在新的場域裡，顧客可以最真實感受觸摸水泥、磚牆、木材等最自然的接觸，整體空間可感受手作的純樸感動。透過玻璃屏障，半開放的柿餅製作加工區，呈現柿餅的製程，讓顧客以視覺感受體驗柿餅文化。內、外空間皆以大地色系如深咖啡色、棕褐色、卡其色、土黃色及橄欖綠等配色，結合簡單、樸實線條呈現沉穩與內斂。並融入曬製柿餅的竹簍及柿染作品等意象，以原木木材及柿子樹幹，重現柿餅農村的氣息及串起農村的兒時記憶。"
"New ""Persimmon-vision"" for Coexistence of Mankind and Nature in 
Agricultural Villages

Jin-Han started primarily as an educational farm. Its current operation model includes the distribution of persimmon products, guided industrial tours, guided ecological tours, and various agricultural village life experiences.  The company expects to transform itself successfully into a tourism factory-based educational cultural park that is devoted to promoting the culture and values of the traditional persimmon business by being creative and applying its unique background. Persimmons, the co-existence of mankind and nature, and handmade natural products are at the core of its brand positioning and design. The overall spatial layout preserves the original appearances of the materials, too. In the farm's new centers, customers can physically touch the cement, brick walls, and wood. They are exposed to the most natural elements. Simply being in the room is enough for customers to feel touched by the handmade simplicity. Through a glass barrier, visitors can see the partially open persimmon processing zone. Visual representations of how dried persimmons are made is another way for customers to experience persimmon culture. Both the exterior and interior feature earthy colors, such as dark brown, dark tan, khaki, earthy yellow, and olive, in combination with simple and plain lines to create an aura of calmness and introversion. There are also images of the bamboo baskets used to dry persimmons in the sun, as well as persimmon-dyed work. The real wood and persimmon tree trunks help bring to life the experiences of an agricultural village known for producing dried persimmons and childhood memories of growing up in an agricultural village. "
"追返兒時記憶的好「漬」味

集結豆腐塊、黃豆粒、豆腐層板及醃製陶甕等客家傳統元素，以精緻化的視覺、現代化的手法呈現傳統藝術與美食的結合。以紅磚瓦牆帶出傳統老店脈脈相傳的意境，以古早物品記錄郭家莊醬園變遷的活歷史，客家花布畫龍點睛地讓空間散發出客家文化氣息，卻不失雅緻的氛圍，仿古的設計感，以暖色及木質做為內部裝潢基調，簡約的現代線條，樸實而不失風味的設計，即使翻修新面貌，仍然保留著傳承古法技藝、手工製作的用心，這裡不僅是豆腐乳的文化展示空間，讓顧客在充滿客家文化的創新店面裡體驗，也藉此空間的再造，期成為全國最具代表性的「豆腐乳主題館」。"
"Good Taste since Childhood

Traditional Hakka ingredients such as tofu cubes, soy beans, tofu boards, and curing ceramic jars are combined and displayed in a fine visual and modern way, demonstrating a perfect combination of traditional art and cuisine. A red brick wall symbolizes the passing of this traditional and historical store from generation to generation. The objects from the olden days are a record of the living history of Guo's Paste Garden's transformation. Hakka fabric delicately establishes a Hakka culture atmosphere in the room. The elegant feeling and retro designs are made possible by the warm-color wooden interiors. The simple modern lines are plain yet stylish. Despite having undergone renovation, the traditional and ancient practices and skills, as well as hand production methods,  have all been kept intact. This is not only a showroom for the culture of cured bean curds which allows customers to get a feeling for innovative Hakka culture for themselves, it is also the most representative cured bean curd theme house in the enitre country."

