"Hakka TAIWAN" is the joint brand for Hakka products, and the Council has been proactively promoting and reinforcing the brand image. Many quality Hakka products have been introduced to the international market under this brand over the past few years. The brand has hence become an advantageous tool in communicating Hakka culture. There are at least 376 businesses and more than 730 Hakka products under the brand, including delicate and creative daily life handicrafts, delicious and attractive pastries and cured vegetables, elegant and fashionable dyed textiles, and cultural products that embody local characteristics. All are presented in innovative and impressive packaging. 

The Council has continued to promote the Hakka Specialty Industry Facilitation Plan in 2012 and 2013. Seventy-six Hakka businesses with great development potential and had not been assisted by the Council before were selected and assisted in accordance with their classification. Elite designers and consultation teams provided professional assistance and counseling services to help prepare the brand, by giving substantial suggestions on production process modification and marketing and sales orientation. Products and their packaging and marketing were re-designed and interpreted from multiple perspectives. Eighty-seven Hakka products were given brand new looks. In addition, for the first time the program selected 10 businesses of high potential for corporate development, to transform then into Hakka cultural experience workshops, tourism factories, or farms. This is accomplished by means of overall spatial transformation and shifts in developmental focus, to help market local Hakka village tourism based on the "traditional industries with innovative values" concept. 

In order for people throughout Taiwan to experience Hakka products and the brand new looks of the top business venues, the Council has specially compiled a volume of assistance results, which includes more than one hundred fine Hakka products certified by the Council to carry the Hakka Taiwan mark. The vivid visual design and elegant textures as well as the overall aura bring new tactile sensations. It is our hope that the book will serve as a reference for enterprises, groups, and individuals when they choose quality gifts for their relatives and friends, both domestic and overseas. 

The Hakka Specialty Industry Facilitation Plan will continue into the future, combining culture, creativity, and industry, with a goal of "adding culture to industries and adding industry to culture," and boosting the innovative momentum of Hakka TAIWAN to bring Hakka businesses into a new 
era.

Hakka Affairs Council Chairman
○○ Huang
(Signature)
