品牌故事(業者修正版)

「漆飾結髮」是負責人蔡素幸，童年難以忘懷阿嬤手持木梳整理髮束幸福的模樣而創立的品牌。選擇高級實木製作，每把都是獨一無二，且結合客家花卉並彩繪，是展現客家婦女典雅秀緻之美的髮飾品。齒寬可按摩，齒密具順髮功效，集實用、養生、藝術於一身的生活時尚用品。
Su-xing Cai created the Qishi Jiefa brand motivated by her vivid childhood memories of her grandmother pleasantly combing out her hair using a hand-finished wooden comb. For the Qishi Jiefa brand, a unique piece of high quality wood is selected for each comb, which is then decorated with Hakka floral patterns. Each comb exemplifies the beauty of the hair accessories of Hakka women. The combs are either wide-toothed or fine-toothed, so that you can both massage the scalp and smooth the hair. Qishi Jiefa combs are fashionable items that combine practicality, health and aesthetics into one item that will see daily use.
鮮活農產公司以24K為名，創造「棗道24K」品牌。採擷成熟的新鮮紅棗，經過清洗及低溫乾燥後，再以慢火熬煮7至8小時，待果肉及湯汁完全融合並濃縮後，再加入臺東有機老薑母，以及柴燒麥芽糖更增添紅棗香甜，不論是以熱水調和或加入溫熱鮮奶飲用，皆是寒冬最佳去寒飲品。
Fresh Produce made a name for itself with the "Jujube Road 24K" product series. The company harvests fresh ripe red dates, cleans and dries them at a low temperature, and then simmers them for seven to eight hours. As soon as the pulp and the soup completely bind together and are concentrated, organic old ginger from Taitung is added. Wood-fried maltose, meanwhile, increases the fragrance and sweetness of the dates. With hot water or lukewarm fresh milk, it becomes the best drink for a cold winter.
「哈客愛」如名希望以客家之愛(hakka love)，傳達與發揚「健康養生的客家美食」理念。本產品嚴選在地之春茶，採用冷凍研磨技術，再加入天然五穀食材研磨混合而成，除可品嘗擂茶香醇口感外，更能享受DIY手作之樂趣。
""Hakka Love", as the name says, wishes to communicate and spread the health-preserving ideals of Hakka cuisine based on a love for Hakka culture. Products of the company are free of preservatives, artificial colors, and spices. Its spring tea is carefully selected in the local area, and then the natural grains and ingredients are ground using cryogenic grinding technology. Besides tasting the pure and fragrant texture of pestled tea, one can also enjoy the fun of involvement in the creative process of tea making.
"
珍豬客家精饌嚴選黑豬滷製厚皮帶骨圈狀豬腳，承襲客家傳統料理工法，不添加味精及中藥材，熬滷出外皮油亮Q彈，肥瘦適中，且具豐富膠原蛋白的珍豬腳，完整呈現客家料理獨特風味。
Best Hakka Pig Cuisine carefully selects the round legs of black pigs with thick skin and bones. Without MSG and Chinese herbs, the stewed pig leg has a greasy, shiny, and chewy skin, and an adequate distribution of fat and lean meat.  Its pig leg with a rich collagen content perfectly demonstrates the unique flavor of Hakka cuisine.
"負責人劉菊英傳承媽媽的手藝，以苗栗公館在地芋頭加入黑土豬肉及海鮮，獨家研製無味精的珍珠龍粄，並以「龍粄在手，生活不用愁，煎煮炒炸加煲粥，健康美味通通有。」順口溜，增添品嘗龍粄時之趣味。
"
The proprietor of Best Hakka Pig Cuisine, Ju-Ying Liu, created the company based upon techniques passed down by her mother. The black pork and seafood infused with taro from her Miaoli estate and the company's signature MSG-free pearl dragon noodles pass on the message: "With dragon noodles in hand, the worries of life fade away. Whether boiled, fried, or served with porridge, good flavor and health are here to stay." The joyful slogan adds an extra fillip when eating their classic dragon noodles. 
好客媽媽擅長精製經典客家美食，這道以豬肉、乾魷魚、豆干，配上青蔥及芹菜拌炒而成的客家小炒，以豬肉本身的油脂來增添口感，搭配風味淡雅的海鹽，讓食物嘗起來不死鹹，使用簡單的調味卻能讓味蕾感受食材本身豐富的滋味。
Mothers known for their cooking tend to refine the classic Hakka recipes they have inherited. Such is the case with this Hakka stir-fry, which features pork, dried squid, bean curd, green onions, and celery. The integral fat of the pork is used to enrich the texture. With a light addition of extra sea salt, the food is simple and salty, which allows the taste buds to experience the rich flavor of the natural ingredients. 
唯有南投埔里客庄的好山好水，才能種植出嫩白清脆，素有美人腿之稱的茭白筍。吟詩企業公司特以家鄉的特產研製出美人腿泡菜，不僅增加農產收益，更賦予茭白筍新價值，和您茭心茭友，佐伴每一個美味時刻。
Tender, white, and crisp water bamboo is only available in the Hakka township of Puli, Nantou because of the favorable natural conditions there. Yinshi Company particularly produces kimchee with water bamboo, an exclusive product of the area, to not only increase agricultural income but also give water bamboo a new definition. The kimchee is a welcome addition to meals at all times.
"麥芽糖380g、蘇打餅乾25g×12入、小剪刀×1、塑膠手套×1/組

    
    "
    Maltose380g. soda cracker 25g x 12. small scissors × 1. plastic gloves × 1 /Set

