


麗揚工作室緊鄰桃園縣客家文化館，擅長以軟陶土（polymer clay）捏製各式公仔及飾品。公仔的客家話為「人公仔」，穿上大襟衫桐花服飾的男孩稱「細倈仔」、女孩子稱「細妹仔」，另外還有以桐花為衣裳的「桐花仙子」、以柿子為造型的「柿子仙子」及客家人信仰的「伯公」，都在鍾麗鶯的創意及巧手捏塑下，成為栩栩如生、討喜的Q版公仔。藍衫為客家婦女傳統服飾，向來給人素雅典樸的印象，以迷你版的藍衫，鑲嵌各種客家意象花朵後，以藝結線串起，成為掛飾，永不凋謝，更可作為胸針或髮髻，或成為美麗的飾品。

Li Yang Studio is located adjacent to the Hakka Museum in Taoyuan County and specializes in producing all kinds of dolls and accessories with polymer clay. Doll in Hakka is "Rengongzai". When the doll is wearing a right buttoned unlined garment with paulownia flower patterns, it is referred to as a "xilaizai (boy doll)" when a boy, and "ximeizai (girl doll)" when a girl. There is also the "Paulownia Flower Fairy" that wears clothes made of paulownia flowers, the "Persimmon Fairy" that comes in a persimmon style, and "Bogong," which is an object of worship for the Hakka people. All are vivid and attractive cute dolls created with imagination and craftsmanship by Zhong Li-Ying. Blue blouses are traditional garments for Hakka women. They appear to be simple and elegant. A mini blue blouse embedded with various expressive flowers and hung with an artistic knotted rope becomes an ornament that will never wither away. It may also be made into a pin or used in a hair bun, or it may simply be a beautiful accessory.

桐花的花語是「奉獻」，可象徵客家子民不畏艱辛、刻苦奮鬥的精神。代比爾珠寶特以桐花為主題，結合美濃客庄的黃蝶，特製「桐心寶蝶」戒指及墜飾，流線設計呈現獨具美感。而經典的七彩桐花墜鍊及耳環，則是以折射率如同鑽石一般璀璨的彩色能量鋯石做為花蕊，除突破硨磲天然的易碎材質，使用純熟手工技術雕刻出立體桐花，並以巧妙的鑲工，讓抓住中間爪鑲時，可使桐花轉動，彷彿翩翩落下的旋舞桐花。

In the language of flowers, a paulownia flower means "devotion." It symbolizes the hard work, diligence, and perseverance of the Hakka people .Debeer Jewelry designed the Paulownia Flower and Butterfly rings and pendants specifically with paulownia flowers in mind, combining them with the yellow butterfly from the Hakka village in Meinong. The streamline design presents a unique appeal as a piece of art. The pistils of these classic colorful paulownia flower pendants and earrings are set with a shiny scintillating zircon with a refractivity rate comparable to that of a diamond. A 3D paulownia flower is carved by hand skillfully in a fragile natural tridacna stone. The tactical embedding technique makes it possible for the paulownia flower to rotate when held by the prong. It looks like a beautiful falling paulownia flower. 

苗栗苑裡是閩客融合的鄉鎮，一群志同道合的朋友，為了保存擁有145年歷史的鄭家客家古厝，帶頭做起保存客家文化古蹟及人文歷史的工作，並於古厝內成立東里家風。苑裡鎮是藺草的故鄉，從前家家戶戶的婦女都依靠編織藺草貼補家用，但隨著時代的變遷讓老技藝逐漸失傳。為此東里家風整合在地師傅，將技藝傳承給年輕一代，所以每頂草帽皆是80歲以上的客庄阿婆，以一根根三角藺草編織而成，讓藺草工藝結合傳統創新設計能永續發展。
Yuanli Township of Miaoli County is inhabited by both Taiwanese and Hakka people. Donglijiafeng was founded in an ancient house by a group of friends sharing the same ambitions who took the initiative in the preservation of historical sites symbolic of Hakka culture and history. The ancient Hakka house of the Zheng family that is 145 years old is one such example of their preservation efforts. Yuanli Township is the birthplace of triangle rush weaving. In the past, women in all households relied on grass (triangle rush) weaving to supplement the family income. As time went by, however, this ancient skill has been gradually lost. In light of this slow death, Donglijiafeng joined forces with local masters to pass this nearly lost skill down to the younger generation. Each grass hat is carefully woven of triangle rush by Hakka women of over 80 years of age. The hope is that the triangle rush art, along with traditional and innovative design, can grow together sustainably. 
雙峰企業（三義一ㄚ箱寶）創立於1963年，其工廠坐落於以木雕工藝聞名的苗栗三義。一ㄚ箱寶為了讓大眾對於臺灣瀕臨絕種的動物能更為熟識，特以臺灣樟木樹皮雕製「臺灣黑熊」，作品除散發原生樟木獨特香味，更於黑熊胸口刻上V形微笑標誌，看似為臺灣黑熊穿著V領毛衣博君一笑。分別設計禮盒版及精裝版不同包裝盒，讓商品提升價值。有「魚狗」或「釣魚翁」別稱的翠鳥，乾淨河邊可看見牠的蹤影，此牙籤罐以翠鳥為造型，繪製鮮豔色彩呈現活潑俏麗感，內部挖空設計可放置牙籤，使商品更具實用性，置於餐桌上，可增進用餐氣氛，讓彷彿身穿5款不同花色衣裳的翠鳥牙籤罐，更具典藏觀賞之價值。


Shuangfong Wood Carving Factory (Sanyi Duck Factory) was founded in 1963. The factory is located in Sanyi, Miaoli, a place known for its local wood carving industry and handicrafts. Duck Factory created its Formosan Black Bear with Formosan camphor bark as an object that would give the general public a better understanding of animals that are nearly extinct in Taiwan. The carving gives off the unique fragrance of native camphor trees, and on the chest of the black bear is a V-shaped smile. It looks as if the Formosan black bear is wearing a V-collar sweater just for fun. Both the gift box and special editions are designed to increase value of the product. River kingfishers are often sighted by clean river sides. This toothpick holder comes in the shape of a kingfisher. The colorful design gives the bird a vivid, active, and cute appearance. The hollow interior can accommodate toothpicks and adds to the usefulness of the product, while also adding to the dining atmosphere when placed on the dinner table. The toothpick holders come in five different color patterns and are worth collecting for ornament. 


吳樹發兄弟於1968年開設了自己的工廠-樺泰(前身為盛昌工藝社)，在物以稀為貴的臺灣早期，漆器是大戶人家專用的器物，一般平民在採辦嫁妝時才會擁有。吳樹發將追求完美的工藝精神表現在漆器上，從生活用品著手，包括茶盤、花瓶、精緻菓盒、漆筷、點心盤、杯子等數十種創作，以手工上漆的方式彩繪出深具客家意象的作品，經過木胚、磨平、底漆等12道研磨程序的漆器，精巧細緻質感佳，將早期珍貴漆器工藝，自然融入現代生活中。不同於傳統熟漆的加工不易與昂貴價格，腰果漆的色彩更具飽和度且價格平易近人。









Wu Shu-Fa and his brother started their own factory, Hua Tai, in 1968 (It was formerly known as Shengchang Handicraft Shop). In the early days of Taiwan, where rare items were valued, lacquerware receptacles were seen exclusively in rich households. Ordinary people, on the other hand, only saw lacquerware during wedding preparations. Wu Shu-Fa demonstrated his pursuit for perfection in craftsmanship in this lacquerware. He has invented several dozens of products, including items for daily life, such as tea trays, vases, fine candy boxes, lacquer chopsticks, snack plates, and cups. These handpainted colorful products symbolic of Hakka culture must undergo 12 grinding and processing steps, including making the wood base, flush grinding, and bottom painting, before they luster with a fine and delicate texture. They are the natural product of valuable ancient lacquer craftsmanship fit for modern life. Unlike traditional lacquers, which are expensive and not easy to apply, the color of cashew lacquer produces a work which is deeply saturated in color and fairly priced. 









駿翔成立迄今已有20多年，有著深厚的紡織成衣製造專業，熱愛將布品開發設計成各式各樣的家飾品、布包及時裝等精品，銷售足跡已遍布世界各地。每年4、5月為桐花盛開的季節，全臺舉辦的桐花祭活動，更是具客家文化代表性之節慶。駿翔將桐花與傳統花布結合，開發新的桐花布品，進而設計一系列生活實用的商品，更以「美角」（MeiGa）為品牌，重視每一個製作環節，創造出最美的角色。從對客家文化熱情出發，期做「最美的角色、最用心的訣竅」，藉由布面盛開的花朵，分享給全世界的朋友，透過花布布藝說自己的故事、唱自己的歌。






Mechlin Tailor Shop has been in existence for more than 20 years. With solid textile and garment manufacturing expertise, the company is devoted to the development and design of fabric materials and transforming them into a variety of fine products, such as home ornaments, cloth bags, and fashionable clothing. Sales of their products have reached all corners of the world. April and May are the paulownia blossom season. This is when the Hakka Tung Blossom Festival takes place. Hakka people throughout Taiwan celebrate this symbolic festival of Hakka culture. Mechlin Tailor Shop sets paulownia flowers on traditional flower-patterned fabrics to develop this new fabric product. A series of useful daily products have been designed under the brand name MeiGa. This brand emphasizes the importance of each production step. The company has been able to create truly beautiful products. Starting off with a passion for Hakka culture, the company hopes to produce "the most beautiful and most carefully tailored" products and share the blossoming flowers on the fabrics with friends around the world. The flower-patterns and fabrication techniques sing their own stories to the viewer. 






昀谷國際傢飾有限公司擅長製作防蚊簾、包覆巾、桌巾及抱枕等家飾用品，經不斷改良創新，將常見的居家用品發展為具多功能特性及用途。本產品油桐花防蚊簾，於簾子下擺縫製磁鐵，使用擺動時，可讓下擺隨時恢復緊密貼合狀態，更能發揮防蚊功效，貼心的設計深受消費者喜愛，除此更加入桐花元素，代表客家的熱情良善與隨遇而安的個性，讓商品更多了文化意涵價值。
Yungu International Furniture and Ornaments Company Limited specializes in making home ornaments and supplies such as mosquito nets, cover cloths, table cloths, and arm pillows. With constant innovation and repeated modifications, common home supplies are developed to provide the user with superior products that have multiple functions and purposes. This particular product, the paulownia flower mosquito net, features sewed magnets at the bottom of the drapes so that the net remains tightly closed whenever it moves to better keep mosquitoes out. The thoughtful design has been very much loved by consumers. In addition, the paulownia flower element is added to symbolize the passion, friendliness, and easy-going nature of the Hakka people. It bestows on the product additional cultural value. 
台塑有機農業生物科技股份有限公司自2001年成立迄今，發覺早期客家庄種植橄欖樹，並取用它的根、莖、葉及果實熬煮成茶或湯品飲用，以維護身體健康與養生之用，因此將新竹寶山的橄欖產銷班組織企業化，研發橄欖美妝保養品，本產品綠橄欖多酚精華油，是精粹橄欖之精華製作而成，滋潤肌膚更無負擔。
Taisuh Organic Agriculture Biotech Inc. was founded in 2001. The company discovered that the roots, stems, leaves, and fruits of olive trees grown in Hakka villages in the early days can help maintain and preserve health and thus made them into teas or soups. It managed to corporatize the olive production and distribution of Baoshan and Hsinchu and completed R&D for olive-related cosmetics and skin care products. This product, green olive polyphenol essential oil, is the extract of fine olives. It helps to nurture the skin in a problem-free way. 
春田窯坐落於苗栗三義，所生產的陶製品皆經1,200度以上高溫燒製而成。臺灣蓋杯的杯身塑有臺灣圖形，而油桐花點綴的地方就是苗栗，意味將苗栗桐花美景延伸於陶杯上繼續綻放之意涵，陶杯其把手好握、實用性高，並具有保溫效果。另外結合三義在地木雕，創製桐花杯及木紋碟組，採手工並可客製化製作，是送禮最佳選擇。

Spring Kiln is located in Sanyi, Miaoli. All of its ceramic products are kilned at a high temperature of over 1,200 degrees Celsius. As the name says, there is a picture of Taiwan on the body of the cup. The area with paulownia flowers, of course, is Miaoli. These beautiful views in Miaoli are relocated on the ceramic cup, where paulownia flowers will continue to blossom forever. This ceramic cup has an easy-to-hold handle, is highly useful, and keeps warm any liquid poured inside. Besides the said covered cup, there is a paulownia flower cup and woodgrain saucer set that displays the local wood carving technique in Sanyi. It is handmade and available for customization, making it a great gift idea. 

億達草本研發工作室以多年時間辛勤培育，種植全國獨具的羊耳草及筋骨草，並加入客家民俗中，可祛風避邪、保平安之抹草，傳承客家老一輩的經驗與智慧，改良研製抹草美容皂，皂身刻有桐花意象，且晶瑩剔透如皂中之翡翠。億達草本堅持以傳承加上現代化開發研究技術，開創屬於自己的特色。
Yi-Da Herbs have carefully grown over the years an exclusive black liparis and ajuga that cannot be found anywhere else in Taiwan. Desmodium, which is known to be capable of keeping off bad spirits and keeping one safe in Hakka culture, was added to this cosmetic soap. The bar of soap symbolizes the passing-down of the experiences and wisdom of the older Hakka generation. On the soap is an image of paulownia flowers. Crystalline and clear, it is like an emerald in the soap. Yi-Da Herbs insists on developing its own characteristics, while taking into consideration the preservation of the traditional, and on applying modern development and research techniques. 
創辦人吳治增先生於1933年間，以傳統精油產業為出發點創立雨利行，堅信每一顆不起眼的種子都有堅強生命力的信念，從發芽、成熟、茁壯及開花結果散播各地，秉持取之自然、用之自然，並融入多種天然草本之精華，研發一系列清潔及保養用品，更提煉薰衣草、玫瑰、黃金無患子、檸檬香茅及玉容散之精油，製成繽紛桐花精油皂，看似盛開於皂中的桐花，不僅賞心悅目，更讓嬌嫩的肌膚獲得最天然的呵護。
Yulixing was founded by Mr. Wu Zhi-Zeng in 1933 as a company devoted to continuing the traditions of the essential oil industry. It is the company's belief that each unattractive seed contains a powerful life essence which can sprout, mature, grow strong, blossom, bear fruits, and eventually produce more seeds spread everywhere. Holding to the belief that everything has to be natural, the company developed a series of cleaning and skin care products that contain a combination of multiple natural herbs. The colorful paulownia flower series of essential oil soaps are made of essential oils extracted from lavender, roses, gold sapindus, lemon grass, and yurongsan. The bars are created to look as if paulownia flowers are blossoming in the soaps. It is pleasant to the soul and the eyes. What is more important, it offers your tender skin the utmost in natural care.
秀裕公司以傳統油紙傘為發想，使用科技材料取代傳統竹木做為骨架，加上特殊工法將桐花雨落的瞬間美感，立體呈現於傘布上，轉動時，有看似桐花於傘面飛舞的錯覺。摺傘傘骨是以深包覆性傘面的日式美感虎骨傘型製作而成，容易開收的功能增加使用之便利。秀裕公司結合傳統工藝和現代化科技，再注入巧思及創新後提升為文化創意商品，讓傘不單單只是生活用品，更是時尚的流行配件。





With the traditional oil-paper umbrella as its model, New Bon replaces traditional bamboo materials with technologically created ribbing. Add to that unique workmanship, and you have the sudden and striking beauty of rain-like paulownia flowers presented vividly on it. When the umbrella is rotated, it looks as if the paulownia flowers are dancing. The skeleton of the foldable umbrella resembles that of a deeply enveloped Japanese style tiger-bone umbrella. Opening and closing the umbrella is easy, making it more convenient for the user. New Bon combines traditional craftsmanship and modern technology with unique ideas and innovation to produce cultural and creative products. The umbrella is no longer just something you carry around everyday, but also a fashionable accessory. 





大地工作坊擅長以天然植物作為藍靛染色原料之技術，桐花飄絲巾是以桐花飄落之意象作為圖騰拔色，使輕柔具飄逸感的絲巾，宛如置身於細雪紛飛美景中，既時尚又優雅，以桐花飄落景致及植物花草織染出大自然的味道，令人心情平靜，創造藍染手作之新生活美學。
Motherland Studio specializes in using natural plants as the raw materials for its indigo dye. The scarf is imprinted with the image of falling paulownia flowers. Wearing the light, tender, and flowery scarf, one will feel transported to a snowy place. It is fashionable and elegant. The image of falling paulownia flowers and the smell of nature released by the plants dyes, flowers, and grass together soothe the senses. This is new life art made possible with dyeing techniques. 
美濃人傳稱的「景來師」-謝景來老先生，為國內最老的國寶級藍衫師傅，生前於1935年創立的錦興行，現由第3代傳承其手藝，延續景來師的精藝工法製作客家服飾，仍廣受鄉親愛戴及支持。「藍衫」為客家最具特色之服飾，錦興行採客製化訂製，逐漸改變大眾對藍衫的傳統印象，使藍衫更能融入日常生活中，更以藍衫意象車製成圍裙，穿著它烹煮出的菜餚，彷彿更具客家滋味。


The legendary Master Jinglai in Meinong, Mr. Xie Jing-Lai, is the oldest living national treasure and is recognized for his blue blouse-making skills. He founded Jin Xing Shop in 1935. The shop is now run by the third generation and continues to devote itself to making Hakka garments with the same unparalleled workmanship passed down by Master Jinglai. The garments are well-received by locals. The "blue blouse" is one of the garments most symbolic of Hakka culture. Chinhsing Hang tailors each blouse according to the respective customer's needs, changing peoples' common impression of the traditional blouse and further integrating blue blouses into daily life. The shop even produces aprons following the same concept as their blue blouse. Wearing the apron while cooking adds an extra Hakka flavor to the experience.


芸竹服裝坊運用客家花布元素設計一系列客家花布帽、POLO衫及花布包。客家花布帽的圖案採立體設計，以多樣化角度裁剪花布，讓每頂都是獨一無二。另有結合抗UV吸溼排汗布料做成的POLO衫，及運用在地植物作為染料染製的花布包，別緻獨特的財神爺造型，賜與您福與財，讓年輕人也可體驗客家花布的時尚與美麗。


Yunzhu Garment Studio designs a series of Hakka floral hats, polo shirts, and floral bags that use elements of Hakka fabric. The patterns on these Hakka floral hats are designed in three dimensions. The fabrics are cut in a variety of angles to make each hat unique. The polo shirts are made of UV resistant and moisture wicking fabrics; the floral bags are dyed with local botanical materials and carry the exquisite and unique image of the God of Wealth, which serves as a blessing for the wearer. Young people can also experience the fashion and beauty of Hakka fabrics. 


沛佳服飾工坊以創新的概念，將側背包以客家圖騰作為底紋，運用車繡及壓線方式製作，由內往外擴散的圖案，象徵著代代相傳之意，蘊含豐富客家古風，承襲素雅與東方印象，融入古典與西方思潮，針線穿梭對服飾的堅持與使命，轉換傳統，創新突破，使客家文化能再生及活化，不斷承襲下去。
Pei Jia Garment Studio adds innovative ideas to bags, like the addition of a Hakka totem as a background. By means of embroidery and pressure creasing technique, the graphics that radiate from the inside out symbolize the passing-on from generation to generation. The enriched aura of ancient Hakka culture is a continuation of simple elegance and an Eastern feeling with the combination of classic and western trains of thought. Each stitch represents the persistence and mission of traditional garments. With innovation, tradition takes a new turn and transforms Hakka culture, making it blossom anew and survive each generation.
唐禹夏是六堆地區以客家傳統服飾「藍衫」為創作主題的工作室，秉持傳承客家文化，並發展創新在地特色產業。作品小藍衫，是將傳統藍衫縮至8分之1大小，製工精細小巧別緻，具典藏紀念價值，裱框作為壁飾，更有文化傳承之意義。而運用客家花布製成蘋果外型的平安果，具平安祝福之意涵，最適合送禮，外型可愛討喜，更可作為針插使用。 

Located in the Liudui district, Tang Yu Sia is a studio known for its innovative blue blouses, a traditional Hakka garment. The studio insists on adhering to Hakka traditions while at the same time developing and renewing local-characteristic industries. One of the studio's masterpieces, the small blue blouse, is one-eighth the size of a traditional blouse. The fine workmanship and exquisiteness show how collectable and souvenir value can be added to a product. When framed and made into a hanging ornament, it is even more symbolic of cultural inheritance. The fruit of peace in the shape of an apple made with Hakka fabrics comes with the meanings of peace and safety. Its cute and pleasant style make it a great gift. It can also be used as a pin cushion. 

桑葚園觀光果園坐落於桃園龍潭純樸的客家小鎮，果園內採用自然農耕法栽種，並以農改技術細心培育每棵桑樹。除有桑葚果實釀成的鮮果醋及酵素，更利用桑樹及桑葉，研製桑葉養生花茶及養生麵條。每年4、5月桐花紛飛時，開放遊客入園體驗天然採果樂及親子DIY，感受不同的客庄慢活體驗，「桑葚緣」致力以最好的桑葚、最真誠的心，與大家「結善緣」。




Kuwa Tourist Orchard is located in the small Hakka town of Longtan, Taoyuan. Believing in natural agriculture, the orchard plants each mulberry tree carefully and looks after it with modified agricultural techniques. Besides fresh vinegar and enzymes made from mulberries, there are healthy floral teas and noodles made of mulberry trees and leaves. In April and May each year, when paulownia flowers are in full blossom, the orchard is open for tourists to experience the fun of natural fruit-picking and engage in family DIY activities. It is a different way to experience the slow pace of life at a Hakka village. Kuwa is devoted to establishing good relations with the community by growing the best quality mulberry products with heart. 

黃記粄條堅持以放置1年半至2年的在來米，磨成米漿後以傳統道地手工製法，蒸熟成薄片的Q彈粄條，為使顧客能品嘗最純淨的米香，堅持不添加防腐劑，並只販售當天製作的粄條，讓人人都吃到新鮮現做的古早滋味。而精心調製的香蔥油，是以黑豬豬油，拌炒臺灣本土紅蔥頭，再加上多種獨門配方製作而成，不管拌入粄條、湯品或青菜中，瞬間香氣四溢，是令人難以抗拒的美味。

Huang's Flat Noodles insists on hand making their chewy flat noodles following the traditional practice with rice flour that has been stored for one and half to two years. The noodles are then steamed and served to customers. In order for customers to taste the purest flavor of rice, no preservatives are added. All the flat noodles are made on the same day as they are sold so that everyone gets to taste the ancient delicacy made fresh. The carefully prepared scallion oil is made of black pig lard stir-fried with Taiwan shallots along with other secret ingredients. Mixed in flat noodles, soup, or vegetables, it releases a strong fragrance, making whatever it is added to hard to resist. 


擂茶為客家傳統飲茶方式，客家老一輩認為「勤勞、食物清淡、常飲擂茶」是健康長壽的主因，故有「每天3碗擂茶，保您活到98」一說。擂茶以茶葉及五穀雜糧為主要成分，能充飢解渴並兼具保健，是客家人招待貴賓的茶點。璞鈺商行致力推廣擂茶飲食文化，研發各種符合現代人需求之擂茶，並將擂茶製成為精美伴手禮，而節能包系列擂茶，更以經濟實惠的方式包裝，送禮自用兩相宜。

Pounded tea (or: "Lei Cha") is a traditional way of drinking tea in Hakka culture. The older Hakka generation believes that "diligence, light food, and frequent consumption of pounded tea" is the key to health and longevity. As such, there is another saying that goes: "three bowls of pounded tea a day keep you healthy up to the age of 98." Pounded tea consists primarily of tea leaves and a five-grain mix. It satisfies an empty stomach, is thirst quenching, and is good for health. It is something that the Hakka people prepare for important guests. Hakka Pestle Cereal is devoted to promoting pounded tea drinking culture by developing various types of tea that meet the needs of modern people. They also make pounded tea into exquisite gifts. The environmental pack series, in particular, features economical and practical packaging. One can purchase the packs for one's own use or as a gift. 

以木炭及南瓜(金瓜)為特色的火炭谷休閒農場，坐落於苗栗造橋客庄，每年到了南瓜博覽會的舉辦時節，園區處處可見結實累累的南瓜隧道，及世界級巨大南瓜生長過程介紹，農場更與木炭結合，打造黑金磚傳奇之特色伴手禮。更精選臺灣好米加入南瓜製成南瓜米粉，產品精純，更是農場一貫的堅持。
Known for its charcoal and pumpkins, Charcoal Valley Leisure Farm is located in the Hakka village of Zaoqiao, Miaoli. During the pumpkin festival each year, pumpkin tunnels are stacked up everywhere on the farm, while an introduction to the growth process of the world famous giant pumpkin is provided to the visitors. The farm combines charcoal and pumpkins to present customers with special "black and gold" souvenirs. The pumpkin rice noodles, on the other hand, are made of select rice and pumpkins grown locally in Taiwan. Making pure products is also one of the farm's principles. 
位於苗栗卓蘭的永安餅行，創辦人江老闆15歲時即出外學作糕餅，苦作實幹打下扎實技術。1975年回鄉創立永安餅行，30餘年留存傳統的老味道、老手藝。特嚴選土鳳梨為內餡，製成桐花外型的桐花餅，口味香、不油膩，而手作土鳳梨酥則是結合臺農2號鳳梨及金鑽鳳梨，以慢火熬煮4至5小時，鳳梨內餡香氣濃郁，嘗起來彷彿在舌間蔓延出酸甜的戀愛滋味。

Yongan Bakery is located in Zhuolan, Miaoli. The founder Mr. Jiang left home and started as a pastry apprentice at the young age of 15. Because of his hard-work and solid work attitude, he brought with him substantial skills when he returned to his hometown in 1975 and founded Yongan Bakery. The traditional flavor and ancient cooking methods have been kept for more than 30 years. With its stuffing featuring select native pineapples, the paulownia flower cake (named after its shape), releases an aromatic and welcome scent. Their handmade pineapple cakes combine Tainung No. 2 pineapples and diamond pineapples for the filling. The pineapples are simmered for four to five hours to make the thickly aromatic pineapple paste filling. The sweet and sour taste might even remind you of falling in love. 

傳承3代，經營70餘年的傳統老店奇巧香餅家，在不斷研發創新口味同時，不忘老祖父保存傳統技藝的堅持，更運用苗栗客庄在地食材製作營養豐富的芋頭餅、充滿豬油香氣的古早味肉餅及結合南瓜餡與客家粢粑的黃金Q餅，都是令人讚不絕口的好滋味，更是外出遊子們懷念的兒時記憶與懷舊口味。


Qi Qiao Xiang is a traditional pastry store that has been in existence for more than 70 years and is under its third generation of management. While constantly researching, developing, and innovating new flavors, Qi Qiao Xiang continues to apply the traditional techniques kept and passed down by the first generation. The highly nutritional taro cakes made of local ingredients from the Hakka village of Miaoli, the traditional meat cakes that release the thick aroma of tasty fats, and the chewy golden cakes that combine pumpkin stuffing and Hakka Qi Ba (steamed glutinous rice pastry) in one are all tasty and well-received by consumers. They are part of fond childhood memories and elicit nostalgia for many Hakka people away from home. 


老式雜貨店中擺放許多竹編的大圓盤，上頭裝滿許多五穀、豆類的柑仔店，是林園食品創辦人的兒時記憶。自小便跟隨著父執輩學習穀物知識，從炒豆、脫殼，翻炒到火候控制，再從中細細挑選原料，累積了深厚而扎實的功夫。更結合現代國際天然穀物低溫烘培技術，研磨成粉保留穀物的精華，如陽光穿透灑下大地，孕育穀物風味，記載大地最樸質的原味，每一口的感動都是滿滿幸福的滋味。




An old grocery store with many bamboo-woven round plates, each holding many kinds of grains and legumes, is part of the childhood memories of the founder of Linyuan Foods.The founder has been learning from his father since childhood about grains, including how to fry beans, unshelled grains, stir fry them, and control the cooking fires, and even how to carefully select the raw materials. That is why his skills with grains and legumes is so solid. In addition, he combines the modern international natural low-temp baking technique for grains, and he grinds the grains into powder along with their outer casings so that their essence can be kept. When ground, the grains release an aroma that calls back to when the grains were absorbing energy from the sunshine, and they impart the plainest yet the most authentic original flavor of the Earth. Each taste touches the heart. 




美之味農產企業社坐落於苗栗縣公館鄉，創辦人湛炎慶的父親湛新煥老先生（阿煥伯），從1950年代起就投入覆菜（福菜）製作，是臺灣最早將覆菜加工企業化的農民，透過不斷研發傳統道地客家風味的食材，堅持不加防腐劑及化學添加物，使其產品深受信賴，阿煥伯純熟的醃製好手藝，也傳承予其公子湛炎慶，目前所產出品項豐富多變，並採復古包裝，深獲年輕消費族群青睞，讓更多人有機會接觸客家菜，也將客家料理的好滋味傳播出去。


Beautiful Taste Agricultural Products is located in Gongguan Township, Miaoli County. The father, Mr. Xin-Huan Zhan (nicknamed "Uncle Huan"), of the founder, Yan-Qing Zhan, started to devote himself to the production of pickled vegetables in the 1950s and was one of the earliest farmers to corporatize the processing of picked vegetables. He constantly researched and developed traditional local Hakka food ingredients and refrains from adding preservatives and chemicals to his pickles. That is one reason his products have earned such a reputation from customers. The skilled pickling techniques possessed by Uncle Huan were passed down to his son. Currently available are a number of very diverse products. The products come in vintage packages and are very popular among young consumers. This enables more people to try Hakka recipes and for the wonderful taste of Hakka cuisine to reach even more people. 






春池茗茶的臺灣高山烏龍茶，為種植於海拔1,800公尺以上之手採茶葉，再經過6道製茶工藝精製而成。並突破傳統茶葉包裝思維，以創意包裝手法打造視覺新革命，多項獨特造型禮盒設計令人驚豔，更能符合不同消費者喜好，讓人愛不釋手，特殊造型的包裝，更具裝飾功能，讓環保意識落實於日常生活中。



Chunchi's High-Mountain Oolong Tea contains hand-plucked tea leaves grown at an altitude of 1,800 meters that have to go through six processing steps before packaged. The innovative packaging revolutionizes the way people think about traditional tea products. Multiple unique styles of gift boxes can better meet the preferences of a multitude of consumers. Anyone would love to have them. The uniquely stylish packages are decorative and made to be environmental in daily life. 



酸柑是苗栗客家山區冬季盛產的水果之一，楓之醇本舖將新鮮酸柑，經九蒸九曬製程後，完成堅硬的酸柑茶茶塊，更設計方便沖飲的茶包，將其分別裝進酸柑造型的橘紅色陶罐裡，外包裝以密集板組合而成，呈現客家傳統竹簍意象，兼具環保及趣味，蓋子打開後，濃郁酸柑香氣隨之撲鼻而來。

Limes are one of the winter fruits produced in a large quantity in the Hakka mountain areas of Miaoli. Pickle Museum steams and dries fresh limes in the sun nine times for them to become the hard and robust cubes that are used to make lime tea. In addition, they have designed convenient instant tea bags, which come in lime-shaped orangish red ceramic bottles. The external packaging of plywood is crafted to symbolize a traditional Hakka bamboo basket. It is both environmental and appealing to the eye. After the lid is removed, one immediately is enveloped in the thick aroma of lime. 

稻香客家米食創立於1996年，秉持家鄉傳統美味及手作精神，以傳承對客家米食的情感，及勤奮儉樸的客家精神，不斷開發與創新。精選銅鑼在地番薯，加入獨門配方製成紅糖及黑糖番薯，口感軟Q、甜而不膩，讓人憶起兒時的家鄉古早味。

Dao Hsiang Hakka Rice Food Co. LTD was founded in 1996 and has been constantly developing and innovating on top of delicious traditional recipes with handmade methods from home. It takes up the affection of the Hakka people to rice foods as well as the Hakka virtues of diligence, frugality, and simplicity. With select Tongluo sweet potatos and the secret formula, the resulting red and brown sugar sweet potatoes are soft and chewy, and not overly sweet. Its old flavors might send one back to memories of childhood treats. 

在921地震後，桂花媽媽結合社區媽媽及外籍配偶在東勢大茅埔客家庄，種植2,000株桂花樹，秉持「只要不放棄希望，富貴必定相隨」的信念成立「桂花小舖」，並以客家文化為主軸，研製各種桂花產品，如桂花蜜、桂花梅醋、桂花茶及桂花牛軋糖等，產品除講求健康養生外，更選用環保材質作為禮盒包材，以傳達百年東方桂花滋味。


After the 921 earthquake, Mother Osmanthus joined efforts with other mothers in the community and foreign partners. Together they planted 2,000 osmanthus trees in the Hakka village of Damaopu, Dongshi and founded "Osmanthus Shop" based on the belief that "where there is hope, there is wealth and prosperity." They developed various kinds of osmanthus products such as osmanthus honey, osmanthus plum vinegar, osmanthus tea, and osmanthus nougat symbolic of Hakka culture. The products are healthy, come in environmentally friendly gift boxes and are meant to let others try the centennial good flavor of oriental osmanthus.


柿外桃園的「蘋安柿福」，是採用臺中市和平區栽培的甜柿，及外國進口的蘋果，並以最新低溫脫水技術，濃縮鮮果美味，製出香中帶甜的蘋果及甜柿脆片。另更摘採含豐富維生素C的甜柿嫩葉製茶，發揮客家儉樸精神，原味茶取名為「柿葉順心」、添加綠茶稱「柿葉順利」、搭配肉桂則稱「柿葉貴人」。柿外桃園致力提供健康的茶飲、傳送貼心的祝福。



This product, Pinganshifu (meaning peace and blessings), of Shi-Wai-Toa-Yuan is a product of the persimmons grown in the Heping District, Taichung City, and imported apples. By means of the latest low-temp dehydration technology, the tasty fresh fruits are concentrated and made into aromatic and sweet apple and persimmon chips.There are also other tea products made from tender persimmon leaves that are known for their rich content of Vitamin C. The original flavor one is named "Shiyeshunxin" (to wish someone doing well at work). The one added with green tea is "Shiyeshunli" (to wish someone have a smooth career) and the one with cinnamon is "Shiyeguiren" (to wish someone meeting a lucky star.)Shi-Wai-Toa-Yuan is devoted to introducing healthy drinks that communicate thoughtful wishes. 



全通實業多年來致力擂茶生產，與農民共同研發培育無毒食用玫瑰，並同時與養蜂產銷班策略聯盟，將食用玫瑰、花粉及蔬果食材融入於擂茶中，研製擂茶新鮮風味。公司未來將建置透明化擂茶主題觀光工廠，期以結合生產、生態及生活等理念，讓大眾對客家擂茶文化有更深層的認識並傳承下去。
Quantong Enterprise has been devoted to the production of punched tea for the past years. The company researched, developed, and grew jointly with farmers the poison-free edible roses and allied with the bee production and distribution channels to combine in their products roses, pollen, veggies, and fruits in a Hakka pounded tea. Together they invented novel and fresh flavors for pounded tea.The company intends to build a transparent pounded tea tourism factory in the future that combines production, ecology, and life in one so that the general public can have a deeper understanding of the Hakka pounded tea culture and help it to thrive. 
晨軒梅世代種梅，以青梅銷售為主，後因青梅產量增加而影響銷路，因此於1989年轉型設立晨軒梅加工廠。堅持以傳統方式製作，做出最安全、健康的梅製品，晨軒梅淬煉出梅子健康養身的價值，更造福了在地的梅農。
Chenxuan Plum has been growing plums for generations by selling mainly greengages. The production of greengages increased later, which accordingly undermined the sales. As such, Chenxuan Plum transformed and set up a processing plant in 1989. Insisting on following the traditional production practice to make the safest and healthiest plum products, Chenxuan Plum maximized the health preserving value of plums and helped local plum growers.
嘉冠喜遵循傳統古早味點心研製而成的諸羅桃菓，是煎餅與濃濃黑糖的絕妙結合，再加上南瓜子及氣味芬芳的杏仁粒，增添煎餅口感，是咬得到顆粒的甘醇甜味，及不油膩的新鮮堅果香味，讓黑糖桃果香氣慢慢在嘴裡散發。
The Tirosen pancake made by Jiakuanci following the same practice for making traditional pastries is an outstanding combination of pancakes and thick brown sugar. Pumpkin seeds and aromatic almonds add to the texture of the pancake. The sweetness and thick flavor are combined with almond pieces. The fresh nuts release a nice, pleasant aroma. The brown sugar and nutty aroma spreads slowly in the mouth. 
"大埔農產品生產合作社位於好山好水、四季皆有作物產出的屏東高樹，將每季產出果形優者送進市場販售，果形較差者則透過加工、釀造及醃製過程，使農產品發揮更多價值，因此進而打造「青春釀」品牌，釀製多種口味並含豐富維生素C的水果醋，純厚的口感更讓人感受精神上的愉悅。
"




"Dapu Agricultural Products Cooperative is located in Gaoshu, Pingtung, a place known for its favorable geographical conditions and weather that make it possible to produce crops throughout the year. Optimal fruits are sold in markets while undesired ones are processed, brewed, and cured to add to the value of all agricultural products. The brand Youth Brewage was created in the same line of thought. Fruit vinegar is known for its rich content of Vitamin C. The products come in a variety of flavors. The pure and thick texture escalates the spiritual delight. 
"






