"客家產業升級轉型‧開創文化新視野
就本會輔導之客家特色產業業者，精選10家具企業化經營潛力者，以「傳統產業創新價值」概念為主軸，結合客家文化內涵，並以實體空間規劃、複合展示及販售、參觀製程或DIY體驗等多功能設計，打造發展為客家文化體驗工作坊、觀光工廠或農場等經營型態，創造令人感動之體驗消費新氛圍。
"
"Upgrading and Transforming Hakka Industries for New Cultural Horizons
Out of the Hakka businesses that we have assisted, we have selected ten that we feel have particularly high potential for corporate development. They will be turned into Hakka cultural experience workshops, tourism factories, or farms that combine multiple functions such as exhibitions, distribution, production observations, and hands-on activities. The physical spaces will be developed to introduce the characteristics of Hakka culture, based on the concept of "traditional industries with innovative value," thus creating a new feeling that touches people's hearts as they experience our offerings. 
"
"形塑客家新風貌‧創造好禮新商機
以首次受本會輔導之業者，其產品具客家文化特性者為對象，協助品牌整備發展基礎，提供製程改良、市場行銷定位等具體建議，並結合客家在地特色文化，協助業者進行商品包裝設計再造，賦予商品嶄新面貌，讓傳統客家商品，以精緻化、精品化形象朝國際市場邁進。
New Looks for New Gifts and New Business Opportunities 
For businesses seeking assistance from the Council for the first time, we help those whose products are symbolic of Hakka culture to prepare and develop their own brands, by providing them with substantial advice, in areas such as production process improvement and marketing and sales orientation. We also combine local Hakka cultural characteristics while assisting the businesses revolutionize their product packaging designs, so that the products are given brand new looks. This way, traditional Hakka products can enjoy attractive and fashionable images and see success on the international market. 
"
"百項多元認證商品‧打造優質客家等路
以本會輔導之客家特色產業業者為對象，推動臺灣客家特色商品「Hakka TAIWAN臺灣客家」商品標章認證，鼓勵業者生產及銷售優質客家特色商品，凸顯客庄在地文化，塑造整體臺灣客家產業優質形象，並提供消費者購買優質臺灣客家特色商品之識別，提升其品牌能見度與市場競爭力，及拓展多元商機。
Hundreds of Products with Multiple Certifications to Create Quality Hakka Gifts
Joining forces with Hakka culture businesses that are currently receiving the assistance of the Council, we have introduced the certification mark "Hakka TAIWAN" for products with Hakka characteristics that are made in Taiwan. This helps encourage businesses to produce and sell quality Hakka products that are symbolic of local Hakka village culture, and contributes to the overall quality image of Hakka industries in Taiwan. Additionally, it serves as an easy identification for consumers when they purchase quality Hakka products made in Taiwan, while also enhancing brand visibility, thus providing a competitive advantage and greater business opportunities. 
"
Debeer Jewelry Company
Colorful Paulownia Flower Series (Pendants and Earrings)
Seven-paulownia-flower necklace set  NT$14,360

Paulownia Flower Pendants (Including the flexible cord ) NT$2,480

Paulownia Flower Earrings NT$2,480
Pendants  L2.5cm×W3.5cm×H0.9cm/pendant

Earrings    L1.8cm×W2.2cm×H0.6cm×2/earring set

Paulownia Flower and Butterfly (Rings and Pendants)
Pendants
(With zircon) NT$3,800
(Without zircon) NT$2,800
Rings NT$2,800
Pendants  L2.4cm×W2.8cm×H0.5cm/pendant

Rings         L1.1cm×W1.25cm×H1.2cm/ring


