英語對譯
 Hello everyone, welcome to our class of “Learning Hakka slangs from the stories!” I am Grandpa Hakka. It is very nice to meet you all.
 Um…talking about Hakka slangs, there are actually many kinds of them. Hakka people love to observe things, and they prefer to describe them with metaphors.
 If you ask me how much slang in Hakka, I probably have to take three days and still couldn’t finish it…
 There are classified by the categories of life,  meteorology, industry, folk , legends, life philosophy, and etc. There are too many of them…
 For example, there is one says like this “Eat less you could feel the aroma, eat too much would lost its taste.”
 This sentence is the advice that Hakka elderly talks about don’t eat too much! You would rather eat less than too much…It would burden your stomach and it is bad for your health either. If you eat too much would make the food tasteless…
 Only from this short sentence, you could read the profound implications. No wonder people would say that there are lots of life philosophies behinds Hakka slangs.
These slangs were originally developed from the living experiences of our ancestors, and simultaneously represented the traditional Hakka life focusing on agriculture.
They have strong literary features and are generalized with vivid and concrete languages. If you know how to appreciate them, you would experience different feelings from the regular literature.
 Hakka slang is not coming out of nowhere but from Hakka folk stories which possibly are the real stories or maybe the fictions.
 However, most of the classy ones are having the following features:
 "Folk 
 Extensiveness
 Profound
 Oral description
 Collective
 Inheritance
 Variability
 "
 Because of these features, Hakka slang could pass down from generation to generation.
  Today, we will try to learn these slangs by the profound and interesting Hakka stories which I believe would definitely impress you! So, let’s get started!
 "After this lesson, you will be able to:
 1. Realize the allusion of “Fan Cii Du Meu”
 2. Understand the meaning and application of “Fan Cii Du Meu”
 "
  Long time ago, there was a servant working for a squire. Everything was good until one day he saw a dead cat in the field.
 He found out instantly that this cat was belonging to squire. Therefore, he quickly reported  to him.
 The squire was very angry and thought the servant was the one who harm the cat. 
 Don’t you think I wouldn’t know that you killed my cat?
  In fact, the squire secretly had feelings toward the servant’s wife, and he tried to make her become his wife! So he thought this was a perfect chance to blame the servant!
 Servant: I did not kill the cat…really...
 Squire: I don’t care; you need to think of a way to make compensation to me.
  Servant: So…how much was this cat? I could give you the money…
 Squire: My cat is very smart and he is not a regular cat. “When he calls out under the roof, all the rats would rush out. When he calls out upon the roof, all the rats would hide to the vases.” Last year, there was one guy who offered me thirty-three hundred for the cat but I was not willing to sell it.
 Thirty-three hundred seems not much for now but it was a large amount of money back then. How could the servant afford it? When the servant felt distressed, the squire said…
 Squire: if you couldn’t afford this money, I could take your wife for it!
  The servant was very upset and went back to discuss with his wife. His wife told him not to worry after she heard the story. She said just told the squire to take the money in two days. I know how to handle this!
  After two days…
  The squire came to servant’s house and felt glad that his plan was finally realized that he could own his wife. But the servant was not home when he arrived.
 Servant’s wife:  I am sorry; there was one hundred short for thirty-three hundred so he went out to borrow the money. Please wait for a moment.
 But he waited until noon and felt lost. Meanwhile, he started to feel hungry. At this moment, the servant’s wife took out some dishes.
 Servant’s wife:  you must be hungry; here were some things for you to eat first. You could have some rice if you want.
 When the squire tried to fill some rice in his bowl, he accidentally broke the spoon.
  Squire: I think I break the spoon, what should I do?
  The servant’s wife said…
 "Servant’s wife:  This spoon was not a regular one.  “This spoon could cook rice and make gruel; also it could cook fish and meat.”
 Last year, there was one guy offered me sixty-six thousand for it, and I was not willing to sell, so you must pay me the same money for it…
 "
 Squire: it is nonsense for a spoon to cost that much money.
 Servant’s wife:  It makes perfect sense! If you could have a thirty-three hundred cat, of course I could have a sixty-six thousand spoon!
  “Fan Cii Du Meu”
 From this story, we could learn that if someone uses unreasonable cause to force you, you could also use the same way to treat him! So, this is the meaning of “Fan Cii Du Meu.”
  If using the sentence in life, you could say “Do not make up an excuse to answer a question or a request”
 This means “Do not make up an excuse to answer a question or a request”
  If you would like to practice more, you could click the sign of sound to listen and try to make your own sentence.
  In addition, we also provide few examples for the similar slag so you could learn more at the same time. 

  It is difficult to get out this time

 There are other slangs for you to practice them at the same time!
  “When he calls out under the roof, all the rats would rush out. When he calls out upon the roof, all the rats would hide to the vase.”
 “This spoon could cook rice and make gruel; also it could cook fish and meat.”
  Welcome to the time for self-exam!
  You could click the challenge button anytime when you are ready!
 "After this lesson, you will be able to:
 1. Realize the allusion of “O Sii Hak Fan”
 2. Understand the meaning and application of “O Sii Hak Fan”
 "
 Boss Huang Man was a legendary character who was Miaoli Uchiyama’s virgin soil cultivator. Every time when people talk about “Boss Huang Man”, they would praise his wisdom and pride.
  It was also his personality to help him have many good friends. He cultivated many virgin soils and became rich from scratch. He was one of the tycoons in the late Qing Dynasty in Taiwan.
  There were lots of legendary stories when he cultivated the virgin soils in Uchiyama. Because he tried to take over the lands from aboriginal people, these people didn’t like him.
 There was one time, Boss Huang Man asked his servants to harvest the half-matured bananas. The servants were very confused…
 Bananas needed to wait until 70% to 80% matured to be harvested. So why was the rush to harvest these half-matured bananas?
 "Just follow my order to harvest them down and simmer them," Boss Huang Man said.
  So they did…
  After few days, he asked servants to cut off a piece of bamboo.
 Boss Huang Man: Now you could put those simmered banana skin into the bamboo and squeeze.
 Ok, you could pour them out now!
  Servants: It looks like poops!
  Boss Huang Man smiles…
  Now we only need a big sandal!
  When everything was ready around evening, Boss Huang Man brought his servants and threw the poop-like banana skin and sandal on the roads where the aboriginal people usually walk through.
  After pouring the smashed bananas and leaving some foot prints, they left quietly.
  These smashed bananas looked even more like feces after a while!
  At this time, there were two aboriginal men walking through the road and saw these poop-like banana skin and the big foot print.
  They were wondering if there were a giant within Han people, otherwise, how could regular Han people have such a big stool and the large footprints?!
  Then, they were so scared and escaped to their village telling their own people about what they saw. Hence, the aboriginal people decided to retreat to the mountain.
  “O Sii Hak Fan”
  Boss Huang Man used simple things like bananas and a sandal to win the perfect fight!  Because of his wisdom, it actually saved lots of human life.
  People nowadays use O Sii Hak Fan to describe a bluff which is using extravagant and exaggerated things to terrify people.
 Normally you could make sentence such as why are you yelling like this, if people don’t know what happened they will think you are O Sii Hak Fan (bluffing). 
 Whether this story brings more images than the regular slang? Hakka’s literature is really interesting!
  If you would like to practice more, you could click the sign of sound to listen and try to make your own sentence.
  In addition, we also provide few examples for the similar slag so you could understand how to use them as well.

  Harvest taro while going to bathroom—Not wasting any time.

  Welcome to the time for self-exam!
   You could click the challenge button anytime when you are ready!
   " After this lesson, you will be able to:
   1. Realize the allusion of “The hearts of people are too greedy”
   2. Understand the meaning and application of “The hearts of people are too greedy”
   "
    One day, Liu, Don-Bin traveled to a wine store and drank three urns of wine. When he enjoyed his time…
    Store owner: Sorry, wine was all sold out!
    I just start to enjoy my time, how come all the wine was sold out?
    Sorry, we are running a small business, so we don’t have extra money to store more. Please have the dishes first, I will go look for some more wine for you.
    Liu, Don-Bin waved his hands and pulled the store owner to the well in the yard.
    They stood on the different sides of the well and the store owner felt confused and watched Liu, Don-Bin.
    Liu, Don-Bin watched the well and muttered toward the well
    And he said to the store owner…
    All the water in this well has already became wine. You can fetch the water for me now!
   The store owner tried and surprised that the water in the well was really wine! 
   So Liu, Don-Bin was having a good time in that day. The store owner was even happier because his water well became a wine well, so he starts to make lots of money with it.
    After one year…
    Liu, Don-Bin passed by this store again and greeted by the store owner happily. He asked whether Liu, Don-Bin needs anything else.
   I am really appreciated that you gave me that wine well before. But it would be even better if you could give me some wine lees to feed my pigs!
    Liu, Don-Bin started to laugh, and pulled the store owner to the same well and muttered again.
    The hearts of people are too greedy. It is not even enough to have free wine!
    So he pointed at the well and the wine turned back to water again.
    The hearts of people are too greedy. It is not even enough to have free wine!
   This sentence describes the greed within human. People like the store owner who only wants to get everything without working would end up with nothing!
    Greedy people usually don’t own the real happiness.
   When you live in a damaged temple, you would only wish to live in a cottage. When you have a cottage, you would wish to have a cabin. When you have a cabin, you would want to live in a high-rise building. When you live in the building, you want a palace. When you move to a palace, you would wish you are the king. When you are king, you want to be god…So it goes on and on, the endless greed!
   You can use this slang to describe a greedy man, The hearts of people are too greedy. It is not even enough to have free wine!”
    If you would like to practice more, you could click the sign of sound to listen and try to make your own sentence.
     In addition, we also provide few examples for the similar slag so you could understand how to use them as well.
      The hearts of people are all similar. When you having this mountain, you still want another.
     It is the same greed even when you exchange your heart to mine.
      Hot wine hurts the health, and assault language hurts people. 
      Welcome to the time for self-exam!
       You could click the challenge button anytime when you are ready!
       "After this lesson, you will be able to:
       1. Realize the allusion of “Gou Jin Suo, Shr Wu Tuei”
       2. Understand the meaning and application of “Gou Jin Suo, Shr Wu Tuei”
       "
        Long time ago, there was a rich man and all his daughters were married. 
        Among them, the youngest daughter married to an honest and straightforward man.
        One time, when the families got together for the rich man’s birthday.
       This youngest daughter was worried that his husband couldn’t help himself to eat too much chicken because they were too poor to have chicken at home. So she made an agreement with her husband. 
        I will tide a rope on your feet, if I think you can have the chicken, I will pull the rope which means you can eat now.
       Everything went well at the first beginning. Although the table was full of all kinds of delicious food, husband behaved himself and didn’t have anything without the wife’s approval.
       After a while, everyone started to throw the chicken bones under the table.
       At this moment, two dogs rushed from outside and tried to eat those bones.
        Suddenly, one dog accidentally tripped the rope twice. And another dog tripped again. So the husband thought his wife wanted him to have chicken and he took all the chicken in his bowl.
        At the last time, he couldn’t stand and said to his wife…
        You sure you want me to have all these?
        “Gou Jin Suo, Shr Wu Tuei”
        “Jin Suo” means tripping the rope.  “Wu Tuei” means he couldn’t finish all the food.
        This slang indicates the meaning of endless.
        For example, next week is uncle’s birthday,
       It means that there are too many wedding ceremonies just like the dogs couldn’t stop tripping the rope.
        If you would like to practice more, you could click the sign of sound to listen and try to make your own sentence.
	 In addition, we also provide few examples for the similar slag so you could understand how to use them as well.
	  The dog poops own the richest lands.
	  Dogs are afraid of tail clamped, and people are afraid of using the wrong reason.
	  Dogs are afraid of stones and thieves are afraid of light. Chickens are afraid of fox and fishes are afraid of net.
	  Welcome to the time for self-exam!
	   You could click the challenge button anytime when you are ready!
	   "After this lesson, you will be able to:
	   1. Realize the origin of “The four sentences”
	   2. Understand the slang of “The four sentences during Hakka’s celebration or funeral ”
	   "
	    The four sentences are not only a deep knowledge, but also a traditional literature in Hakka.
	    The four sentences are commonly spoken during Hakka’s celebration or funeral which means congratulation or condolences. Although they are rarely been used now, many villages still adopt this important tradition.
	    The fours sentences are similar to the four words quatrains. Sometimes, it is created instantly, but sometimes it takes the old wisdom in the past.
	    You can say them in many different occasions. For example, they would work well when you want to say sometime during house moving, wedding or birthday party. 
	   The four sentences do not have specific rules for whom to say them, although people would invite a host or people who are familiar with the rules to say them now.
	   For experienced family members, they would say them when the new couple is giving the toast to express their blessing.
	    They are not just read by the words but having a certain rhythm. People standing around should follow the rhythm and read them together for performing the perfect four sentences.
	    They are also needed to be very familiar with Hakka language and the rhythm for handling well with the concepts. Nowadays, young folks have already lost this ability. 
	    Relatively “words” is not so important in the four sentences. The intention to preserve Hakka language is not only practicing the speaking, but also “sing” out its meaning. It is better to treat Hakka as one kind of music.
	    The content of four sentences is not only representing blessing, the humor inside the words also has the effect to warm up the place.
	    Do not feel “The four sentences” is outdated and only for elderly to say. If you could understand its meaning, you would learn something interesting as well.
	    Next, we are going to introduce some examples for you to say them during some appropriate occasions.
	    There are many traditional four sentences. Correctly using these words in the right situation is the most important thing!
	   "There some simple ones for the following situations including:
	   Birthday party, lighting birthday candles, wedding, wedding toast, visiting the bride and etc.  
	   "
	   Please click the category of the four sentences if you would to know more.
	   Please choose the four sentences you would like to learn today and listen to how the teacher says.
	    The birthday boy/girl was born today; wish him/her all the happiness and well-health.
	    Hope you longevity, fortune and many descendants.
	    Light the birthday candles to shine your lovely face. To be happy as immense as the East Sea and live a long and happy life.
	    Candle lighting on birthday with the joy on his face. Children gather to celebrate your birthday and bless you with presents.
	    Happy birthday and congratulation for your wedding too. Best wishes to the newly-wed. Wish you happiness in every birthday. Happily together until death do you apart.
	   Wish you happy birthday today and best luck with your marriage. Wish you all the happiness and many descendants.
	    It is a special day for the birthday boy/girl, and hope you have the happiest marriage. The first wish is hoping you have many happiness and many other wish for the bride to have a boy soon.
	   Congratulation for your graduation. You have the greatest news today.  Wish you and your wife have a happiest life and love forever. 
	   Congratulation for the newly-wed and lots of great news. Hope you can respect each other in the marriage and have a baby boy someday soon.
	   Candles shine in the room, the wine in the pot, and the meat on the table. Thank god for giving you this beautiful wine. Best wish for you to have many fortune and a baby boy in the future.
	    All the families are toasting for this beautiful wine and your marriage. Today is your big day and wish you have a baby boy at the same time next year.
	   The groom is giving a toast to you. Your marriage is gods-made, so you could have your lovely wife today. Hoping you will have a beautiful baby very soon.   
	   The bride is giving a toast with her shyness.  Wish you have a baby soon in the next year and a happiest marriage ever and forever.
	   The beautiful wine with the precious flowers on the side. Gods are all invited to your celebration today. Hope you have a baby in the next year and a good fortune for your life.
	   Cups are filled with the top wine for everyone gathering together to give a toast to the newly-wed tonight. After finishing this wine, you will be a father soon and have the best fortune in the coming future.
	   The newly-wed is smile when giving a toast. Please raise your glass together and celebrate this great day. Wish you have a twin baby someday soon and good future.
	   The groom is happy with a big smile while giving the toast. Present all the guests the best wine with the delicious dishes. Give you my gratitude by having this toast and wish you have endless fortune and best luck.    
	    Congratulation to this beautiful couple for getting marriage. They are the perfect couple just like Cowherd and the Girl Weaver. Best luck with this wonderful marriage and good fortune in the future.
	   The couple is getting married today just like the gods-made. The families are not leaving yet, so you better save your sweetness for tonight. The love is blooming like peony.
	   The white orchid is blooming with fresh aroma. The couple’s love will last forever.  The chrysanthemum is also blooming in five different colors. This beautiful love will also bloom later at night.
	    Smell the wonderful aroma from the flowers. Their love will last forever just like this lasting fragrance. Just like the sunflower always looks toward the sun, the beautiful bride will always love her lovely groom.
	    The newly-wed is smile when giving a toast. They are such a handsome couple. Wish you have a cute baby in the next year and love forever.
	    All the delicious dishes are lining on the table. Let’s give a toast again to congratulate the newly-wed and wish them the endless fortunes in the coming future.  
	   The bride is shy when giving the toast to all the families. Hope you successfully have a baby tonight and best luck with all your children in the future.
	    The bride is so beautiful. It is their special day tonight. She is giving a toast to all the families and hoping to have a baby boy soon tonight.  
	    Taking a cup of tea from the newly-wed. The beautiful weather symbolizes the good fortune for the couple. Wish you have a twin baby soon and the best luck to your children in the future.
	    After learning all the four sentences, have you understood all of them?
	    Now, please fit the right four sentences into the correct situations.
	    After watching all the lessons, do you have more understanding toward Hakka’s slangs? There are all kinds of interesting stories behind these slangs.
	    If they were not shared by the elderly, these stories would not exist until now.
	    But whether they are true or not? it is not really matter.  It is the wisdom of our ancestors that is really matter.
	    Hopefully, these traditional slangs and the four sentences can be appreciated and passed along to the new generation.
	    Next time, if someone say “The hearts of people are too greedy’ to you, do not feel happy and think they are giving you a compliment.
	    People who only know how to “O Sii Hak Fan” will soon to be realized their true nature. It is better to learn the real thing and work hard. 
	    If you do not understand the real meaning behind the words, you would possibly be made fun of.
	    People will be impressed if you could say the correct four sentences during the appropriate situations.
	    Man: I won the lottery that I bought yesterday!
	    Really? How much?
	    It is ok…not so much…only ten thousand dollars…
	    That is really nice! It is better to have something than nothing.
	    It would be so much better if I could win the one million awards!
	    You are really…
	    Too greedy
	    I am so angry! Lee next door told me he is going to buy a house and a car and laughing at me for nothing…
	    But I thought he doesn’t have a job?
	    Yes! And he is only saying without doing anything at all!
	    Do be so angry! Who doesn’t know he is…
	    “O Sii Hak Fan”
	    What are you murmuring?
	    I am attending my friend’s wedding and preparing some blessing for him!
	    Then you have to use the right ones! What did you prepare?
	    I will say…
	   The newly-wed is smile when giving a toast. They are such a handsome couple. Wish you have a cute baby in the next year and love forever.
	    Today is my grandma’s birthday, and she loves people say the four sentences to her. She is so happy every time when she hears them.
	    But we cannot say the same one.
	    Yes! So I want to be the first
	    So what do you prepare?
	    I will say…
	    The birthday boy/girl was born today; wish him/her all the happiness and well-health.
	    Have you learned everything? If you still have things don’t understand, feel free to review them again any time!
	    Hope everyone having a nice learning today. See you next time!

