Teresa Graham said in the most successful businesses, all the people at the company feel they are part of the plan. Everyone understands what the company is trying to do and everyone believes what they do helps the company achieve its goals.

She says this is really important and one of the reasons for their success.

But how do you get everyone in the company to feel that they are an important part of the company's plans? You can't just tell people what the plan is and expect them to follow the plan. If you tell people your plan for your business, Teresa Graham says only some people will follow the plan. The best employees will not follow the plan.

She says businesses need to involve everyone in the company in the discussion and creation of their plans. She says the way to make sure everyone plays their part in achieving the company's goals is to make sure everyone takes part in creating the plans.

Everyone needs to understand how what they do helps the company achieve its goals, and everyone needs to have personal goals, which they believe in and are connected to the company's goals. When everyone knows what the company is trying to do, and everyone is excited about helping, the company has lots more power.

This only happens when people feels they played a a part in developing the company's plans.

</NOT SO IMPORTANT>

William Kendall has something similar, but different, to say about the role of the company's leaders in managing people. He says the company's owners need to give their managers lots of freedom. He says the company's owners need to find skilled managers and let them do their job the way the managers want to.

The owners shouldn't be telling their managers how to do their job. The owners have to concentrate on growing the business, and thinking about how the company can develop new plans, not about how people should be carrying out the plans the company has already developed.

When William Kendall first was a businessman at the New Covent Garden Soup Company, he said they made many mistakes. He said they tried to do everything themselves. Later he said they brought in a group of skilled managers to do marketing, production and administration at the company. This took pressure off the owners and they could spend their time thinking of what the company should do next.

He says managers should not be given too much freedom, but he also said sometimes too much freedom is better than too little freedom.

He says at the New Covent Garden Soup Company he learned how to give people a lot of freedom, but not too much freedom. The problem is getting everyone in the business excited about reaching the company's goals and making sure they only do what they are supposed to do to at the same time. The business's employees need to be motivated, but they also need to be controlled.
