William Kendall didn't believe in organic foods when he was young. But he saw the success of organic soups and Green and Black Chocolate and he thought that was interesting. He realized that people wanted to be connected to the food they eat. They wanted to know about the food they eat. They wanted to have a personal relationship with the food they eat and the people who grow it.

People who eat organic food feel they are connected to the food because they are eating food which is pure and does not have chemicals added to it. They feel they know this food and the people who grow it better. It feels more like real food.

When he took over Green and Black, he had to think about what would happen if Green and Black, which was organic, became very popular. Green and Black was already very popular with people who were strong supporters of organic food like its founder, Craig Sams, but not very popular with people who normally didn't think much about organic food. They didn't know about the chocolate, or felt it was different and strange.

</NOT SO IMPORTANT>

But William Kendall was expecting that everyone would start buying the chocolate. When it became very popular, he thought he would want to sell his share in it and start another business.

What he did was get Cadbury's, a very big chocolate company, but which does not produce organic chocolate, to buy five percent of the company's shares. Some people said Green and Black should not have a relationship with a non-organic chocolate company. They thought it was a bad idea, but he thought it was a good idea, because small companies like Green and Black need to cooperate with big companies, like Cadbury's, rather than compete with them. He thought if they compete with them, they must lose.

Only a very big company would be able to buy Green and Black if its chocolates became very popular. And it would be easier for a company with a cooperative relationship with Green and Black to buy it than a company with a competitive relationship.

Then, in only six years, sales rose from two million pounds to twenty-two million pounds.

When Cadbury's bought Green and Black, a lot more people who believed in organic food were very unhappy. But William Kendall was very happy, because he had made a lot of money and his plan had worked.

He had involved a very big company in his business from the start, and they were very willing to take over the business when it made a lot of money.
