It's important to have clear goals. Running a business is like taking a trip. Just remember that if you don't know where you want to go, and you go ahead without a plan, it's your fault when you are unhappy about what happens to the business. Choose a structure carefully for your business based on that plan. That structure will determine how the business is run.

Planning is very, very important. Before talking to people who want to use your service or product, you need to do a lot of planning. But it is also very important to talk to clients. You need to see if you have what they are looking for. If you don't have what they want, perhaps your business plans won't be successful.

Businesses never stop learning new things. The people who run businesses should never stop learning. Business plans may or may not need to change with that new learning. The hard work that goes into creating a business plan will be repaid again and again, if the plan is constantly held in mind. the plan should not be regarded as a boring thing that you create only because other people, for example, your bank or shareholders, want to see it.

The plan you have written down can be shown to many different people whenever they want to see a business plan. So the hard work writing down the business plan also should not be regarded as a waste of time. It can be reused many times.

Businesses which grow fast always have good plans and good business planning processes. This has been identified as one of the main reasons for their success. The best business get all the people in the business excited about the plan and make sure everyone feels the company's goals are their personal goals.

You can't impose a plan on people and expect them to get excited about it and to follow it.  Everyone needs to know what the goal of the company is and to be excited about having a role in reaching that goal. That only happens when everyone feels they themselves are creating the goals of the company and new goals for themselves, at the same time. It doesn't happen when people feel they are just following someone else's goals.

William Kendall is a successful businessman who became very good at planning ahead. When he owned a business called Covent Garden Soup Company, he found it very difficult to sell it. That was because everyone thought he was a very good businessman. They thought if they bought the company, they wouldn't do as well as him running it. So they thought it would not be a good idea to buy it.

Therefore, when he started at his next company, Green and Black Chocolates, he immediately started thinking about how to sell it. He went to a very big chocolate company, Cadbury's and asked them if they would like to invest ten percent in the company. They did. And now Cadbury's has bought all of his company. That was his plan.
