This is Erica Gingerich for Business Spotlight--Europe's leading magazine for learners of business English. I'd like to welcome you to our podcast, for the 26th of June, 2007.

I'm sure you can think of lots of people who talk with their hands. I mean, I sure do. When I start talking, I wave my hands around in gesture like crazy. In the July/August issue of Business Spotlight, intercultural communication expert, Robert Gibson, explains that non-verbal communication sends different messages in different cultures.

I wonder what messages I might be sending out without even meaning to. Luckily Robert Gibson is joining me in the studio for a short conversation about communicating without words.

Gingerich: What form of non-verbal communication matters most in business?

Gibson: Just to take one example, perhaps, um, it'd be good to talk about smiling. This seems very simple. Human beings smile all over the world. But they actually smile at different times and the smiling has a different meaning in different countries.

One has to avoid over-generalization, but there's a frequently-experienced difference between the USA and Germany, as to when people smile.

Researchers say that actually there's a different attitude to smiling. Let's just look at what smiling really means in those two countries.

I think in Germany, people smile for a reason. And they often say about the Americans, Ah, people smile all the time. This is superficial. This is actually insincere, or maybe even dishonest.

And if you talk to Americans about Germans, they can often say, Ah, the Germans are really unfriendly. When I go in the service encounter, a shop or I'm doing business, they never seem to smile.

Now, what's the reason for this? I think in Germany, the smile is something reserved for a particular occasion, or has a particular cause. There is a reason for the smile. 

In America, researchers talk about the 'contact smile.' You smile when you meet someone, before you even say something. So, if you understand that, that there is a different reason for the smile, then I think you can avoid this misinterpretation of the situation.

You can find out more about intercultural communication in the magazine. And listen to more of my conversation with Robert on our audio product. Or test your knowledge of non-verbal communication and gestures in our workbook, Business Spotlight Plus. 

Find out how to order these products at www dot business hyphen spotlight dot DE. And come back next Tuesday for another Business-Spotlight podcast.
