6:11 Dr Laurent Borgmann: There is one other thing where I take Americans to the side and explain something to them. This is when they come over as visiting professors. Before I take them into my classrooms. Actually I warn them that my students will not smile at them, that they will be listening very attentively, and they will come up to me afterwards and say, 'Gosh, that was a really interesting lecture. Why don't we have lecturers like that over here?'
Kyle Hickman: When I was here first, student exchange program, we put on a show for a bunch of German students.

6:40 Kyle Hickman: And there's no smiles. And the clap. You could barely hear the clap. And really .. What's going on?

I'm a person who loves to make eye contact and say, Hi to anyone on the street. And, coming here, it was a big cultural shock, And I mean I'll make the eye contact, still, but, uh, it's there's no smiles, so I feel like they either want to fight me, or they don't like me, or, but, uh, it is, I think a lot of it is cultural. And I don't know if it comes maybe from Great Britain. But, it is nice. 

7:11 Kyle Hickman: It, it's validation. it just makes it more pleasant and friendly. So it is a very .. It's a cultural thing that I think Americans do like and enjoy.
Dr Laurent Borgmann: Kyle is right. What Americans enjoy as nice, pleasant contact, for example, greeting people we do not know in the street and acknowledging their presence with a smile, can be seen as too intrusive or superficial in some European countries. I always notice this when I enter a lift, or in this case, an elevator in the United States, and people who I've never met before in my life greet me and smile at me.

7:48 Dr Laurent Borgmann: While in Germany, you often really pretend you're alone in the lift and look at the floor or at the door. In England you can notice a similar phenomenon. When people get off the public bus, they sometimes say, Thank you, to the bus driver, whereas in Germany, the bus driver would remain totally anonymous, almost as if he or she was a part of the bus. I like this behavior and tried it out in Germany, but as you can imagine, the bus driver frowned and thought there was something very wrong with me.
